Risks Related to Our Business If our efforts to attract prospective users and to retain existing users are not successful, our growth prospects and revenue will be adversely affected.
Our ability to grow our business and generate revenue depends on retaining, expanding, and effectively monetizing our total user base, including by increasing advertising revenue on our ad-supported service (“Ad-Supported Service”), increasing the number of subscribers to our premium service (“Premium Service”, and together with the Ad-Supported Service, the “Service”), and finding ways to monetize content across the Service.
We must convince prospective users of the benefits of our Service and our existing users of the continuing value of our Service.
Our ability to attract new users, retain existing users, and convert users of our Ad-Supported Service (“Ad-Supported Users”) to subscribers to our Premium Service (“Premium Subscribers”) depends in large part on our ability to continue to offer leading technologies and products, compelling content, superior functionality, and an engaging user experience.
Some of our competitors, including Apple, Amazon, and Google, have developed, and are continuing to develop, devices for which their audio streaming services are preloaded or may also be set as the default providers, which puts us at a significant competitive disadvantage.
As consumer tastes and preferences change on the internet and with mobile devices and other internet-connected products, we will need to enhance and improve our existing Service, introduce new services and features, and maintain our competitive position with additional technological advances and an adaptable platform.
If we fail to keep pace with technological advances or fail to offer compelling product offerings and state-of-the-art delivery platforms to meet consumer demands, our ability to grow or sustain the reach of our Service, attract and retain users, and increase our Premium Subscribers may be adversely affected.
In addition, in order to increase our advertising revenue, we also seek to increase the listening time that our Ad-Supported Users spend on our Ad-Supported Service and find new opportunities to deliver advertising to users on the Service, such as through podcasts and other opportunities relating to content promotion to users.
The more content users stream on the Ad-Supported Service, the more advertising inventory we generally have to sell.
Further, growth in our Ad-Supported User base increases the size and scope of user pools targeted by advertisers, which improves our ability to deliver relevant advertising to those users in a manner that maximizes our advertising customers’ return on investment and that ultimately allows us to better demonstrate the effectiveness of our advertising solutions and justifies a pricing structure that is advantageous for us.
If we fail to grow our Ad-Supported User base, the amount of content streamed, and the listening time spent by our Ad-Supported Users, we may be unable to grow Ad-Supported revenue.
Moreover, given that Premium Subscribers are sourced primarily from the conversion of our Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers, any failure to grow our Ad-Supported User base or convert Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers may negatively impact our revenue.
In order to increase our Ad-Supported Users and our Premium Subscribers, we will need to address a number of challenges, including: • improving our Ad-Supported Service; • providing users with a consistently high-quality and user-friendly experience; • continuing to curate a catalog of content that consumers want to engage with on our Service; • continuing to innovate and keep pace with changes in technology and our competitors; and • maintaining and building our relationships with the makers of consumer products such as mobile devices.
We face and will continue to face competition for Ad-Supported Users, Premium Subscribers, and user listening time.
We compete for the time and attention of our users with other content providers on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of experience, relevance, diversity of content, ease of use, price, accessibility, perception of advertising load, brand awareness, and reputation.
We compete with providers of on-demand music, which is purchased or available for free and playable on mobile or other connected devices.
These forms of media may be purchased, downloaded, and owned, such as iTunes audio files, MP3s, or CDs, or accessed from subscription or free online on-demand offerings by music providers or content streams from other online services.
We face increasing competition for users from a growing variety of businesses, including other free-to-the-user and/or subscription music services around the world, many of which offer services that seek to emulate our Service and/or have differentiated service offerings.
We also compete with providers of podcasts that offer an on-demand catalog of podcast content that is similar to ours.
We face increasing competition from a growing variety of podcast providers that seek to differentiate their service by content offering and product features, and they may be more successful than us in predicting user preferences, providing popular content, and innovating new features.
Our competitors also include providers of internet radio, terrestrial radio, and satellite radio.
Internet radio providers may offer more extensive content libraries than we offer and some may be offered internationally more broadly than our Service.
In addition, internet radio providers may leverage their existing infrastructure and content libraries, as well as their brand recognition and user base, to augment their services by offering competing on-demand music features to provide users with more comprehensive music service delivery choices.
Terrestrial radio providers often offer their content for free, are well-established and accessible to consumers, and offer media content that we currently do not offer.
In addition, many terrestrial radio stations have begun broadcasting digital signals, which provide high-quality audio transmission.
Satellite radio providers, such as Sirius XM and iHeartRadio, may offer extensive and exclusive news, comedy, sports and talk content, and national signal coverage.
We believe that companies with a combination of technical expertise, brand recognition, financial resources, and digital media experience also pose a significant threat of developing competing on-demand audio distribution technologies.
In particular, if known incumbents in the digital media space such as Facebook choose to offer competing services, they may devote greater resources than we have available, have a more accelerated time frame for deployment, and leverage their existing user base and proprietary technologies to provide services that our users and advertisers may view as superior.
Furthermore, Amazon Music, Apple Music, Apple Podcasts, Deezer, Google Play Music, Joox, Pandora, SoundCloud, Tik-Tok, YouTube Music, and others have competing services, which may negatively impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our current and future competitors may have higher brand recognition, more established relationships with content licensors and mobile device manufacturers, greater financial, technical, and other resources, more sophisticated technologies, and/or more experience in the markets in which we compete.
Our current and future competitors may also engage in mergers or acquisitions with each other, as Sirius XM and Pandora have done, to combine and leverage their audiences.
Our current and future competitors may innovate new features or introduce new ways of consuming or engaging with content that cause our users, especially the younger demographic, to switch to another product, which would negatively affect our user retention, growth, and engagement.
As the market for on-demand audio on the internet and mobile and connected devices increases, new competitors, business models, and solutions are likely to emerge.
We also compete for users based on our presence and visibility as compared with other businesses and platforms that deliver audio content through the internet and connected devices.
We face significant competition for users from companies promoting their own digital audio content online or through application stores, including several large, well-funded, and seasoned participants in the digital media market.
Device application stores often offer users the ability to browse applications by various criteria, such as the 8 number of downloads in a given time period, the length of time since an application was released or updated, or the category in which the application is placed.
The websites and applications of our competitors may rank higher than our website and our Spotify application, and our application may be difficult to locate in device application stores, which could draw potential users away from our Service and toward those of our competitors.
In addition, some of our competitors, including Apple, Amazon, and Google, have developed, and are continuing to develop, devices for which their music and/or podcast streaming service is preloaded and/or able to be used out-of-the-box without the need to log in, creating a visibility and access advantage.
If we are unable to compete successfully for users against other digital media providers by maintaining and increasing our presence, ease of use, and visibility online, on devices, and in application stores, our number of Premium Subscribers, Ad-Supported Users, and the amount of content streamed on our Service may fail to increase or may decline and our subscription fees and advertising sales may suffer.
See “—If our efforts to attract prospective users and to retain existing users are not successful, our growth prospects and revenue will be adversely affected.” We compete for a share of advertisers’ overall marketing budgets with other content providers on a variety of factors, including perceived return on investment, effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products, pricing structure, and ability to deliver large volumes or precise types of advertisements to targeted user demographic pools.
We also compete for advertisers with a range of internet companies, including major internet portals, search engine companies, social media sites, and mobile applications, as well as traditional advertising channels such as terrestrial radio and television.
Large internet companies with strong brand recognition, such as Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Twitter, have significant numbers of sales personnel, substantial advertising inventory, proprietary advertising technology solutions, and traffic across web, mobile, and connected devices that provide a significant competitive advantage and have a significant impact on pricing for reaching these user bases.
To secure the rights to stream content, we enter into license agreements to obtain licenses from rights holders such as record labels, aggregators, artists, music publishers, performing rights organizations, collecting societies, podcasters and podcast networks, and other copyright owners or their agents, and pay royalties or other consideration to such parties or their agents around the world.
We cannot guarantee that our efforts to obtain all necessary licenses to stream content will be successful, nor that the licenses available to us now will continue to be available in the future at rates and on terms that are favorable or commercially reasonable or at all.
We enter into license agreements to obtain rights to stream sound recordings, including from the major record labels who hold the rights to stream a significant number of sound recordings—Universal Music Group, Sony Music Entertainment, and Warner Music Group—as well as Music and Entertainment Rights Licensing Independent Network (“Merlin”), which represents the digital rights on behalf of numerous independent record labels.
Licenses provided by two of these PROs, the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (“ASCAP”) and Broadcast Music, Inc. (“BMI”), cover the majority of the music we stream and are governed by consent decrees relating to decades-old litigations.
We cannot guarantee that our licenses with collecting societies and our direct licenses with publishers provide full coverage for all of the musical compositions we make available to our users in such countries.
This practical obstacle creates additional risk exposure as there inevitably will be licensing gaps in the content we stream, and these risks may increase as we look to expand into new developing markets with uncertain publishing licensing landscapes.
With respect to podcasts and other non-music content, we produce or commission the content ourselves or obtain distribution rights directly from rights holders.
In the latter scenario, we either negotiate licenses directly with individuals or entities or obtain rights through our owned and operated platforms, such as Anchor, Soundtrap for Storytellers, and Spotify for Podcasters, that enable creators to post content directly to our Service after agreeing to comply with the applicable terms and conditions.
In all of the above scenarios, we are dependent on those who provide content on our Service complying with the terms and conditions of our license agreements as well as the Spotify Terms and Conditions of Use (the “Terms and Conditions of Use”).
See also “—Difficulties in obtaining accurate and comprehensive information necessary to identify the compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service and the ownership thereof may impact our ability to perform our obligations under our licenses, affect the size of our catalog, impact our ability to control content acquisition costs, and lead to potential copyright infringement claims.” Even when we are able to enter into license agreements with rights holders, we cannot guarantee that such agreements will continue to be renewed indefinitely.
The concentration of control of content by our major providers means that even one entity, or a small number of entities working together, may unilaterally affect our access to music and other content.
The music industry has a high level of concentration, which means that one or a small number of entities may, on their own, take actions that adversely affect our business.
For example, with respect to sound recordings, the music licensed to us under our agreements with Universal Music Group, Sony Music Entertainment, Warner Music Group, and Merlin, makes up the majority of music consumed on our Service.
For the year ended December 31, 2019, this content accounted for approximately 82% of music streams.
Our business may be adversely affected if our access to music is limited or delayed because of deterioration in our relationships with one or more of these rights holders or if they choose not to license to us for any other reason.
As a result, our ability to continue to license rights to sound recordings is subject to convincing a broad range of stakeholders of the value and quality of our Service.
Many of our license agreements are complex and impose numerous obligations on us, including obligations to, among other things: • meet certain user and conversion targets in order to secure certain licenses and royalty rates; • calculate and make payments based on complex royalty structures, which requires tracking usage of content on our Service that may have inaccurate or incomplete metadata necessary for such calculation; • provide periodic reports on the exploitation of the content; • represent that we will obtain all necessary publishing licenses and consents and pay all associated fees, royalties, and other amounts due for the licensing of musical compositions; • provide advertising inventory at discounted rates or on other favorable terms; • comply with certain service offering restrictions; • comply with certain marketing and advertising restrictions; and • comply with certain security and technical specifications.
Under our license agreements and relevant statutes, we must pay all required royalties to record labels, music publishers, and other copyright owners in order to stream content.
The determination of the amount and timing of such payments is complex and subject to a number of variables, including the type of content streamed, the country in which it is streamed, the service tier such content is streamed on, the amount of revenue generated by the streaming of the content, the identity of the license holder to whom royalties are owed, the current size of our user base, our current ratio of Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers, the applicability of any most favored nations provisions, and any applicable advertising fees and discounts, among other variables.
Additionally, we also have license agreements that include so-called “most favored nations” provisions that require that the material terms of such agreements are the most favorable material terms provided to any music licensor, which, if triggered, could cause our royalty payments under those agreements to escalate substantially.
See “—If we fail to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results could be adversely affected.” If we fail to implement and maintain effective controls relating to rights holder liabilities, we may underpay/under-accrue or overpay/over-accrue the royalty amounts payable to record labels, music publishers, and other copyright owners.
As of December 31, 2019, we have estimated future minimum guarantee commitments of €1.0 billion, primarily under license agreements for sound recordings and musical compositions (both for mechanical rights and public performance rights) but also under license agreements for podcasts.
Such minimum guarantees related to our content acquisition costs are not always tied to our revenue and/or user growth forecasts (e.g., number of users, active users, Premium Subscribers), or the number of sound recordings and musical compositions or podcasts used on our Service.
Accordingly, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability and operating leverage on our Service in part depends on our ability to increase our revenue through increased sales of Premium Service and advertising sales on terms that maintain an adequate gross margin.
The duration of our license agreements for sound recordings and musical compositions that contain minimum guarantees is frequently between one and two years, but our Premium Subscribers may cancel their subscriptions at any time.
We rely on estimates of the market share of streaming content owned by each content provider, as well as our own user growth and forecasted advertising revenue, to forecast whether such minimum guarantees could be recouped against our actual content acquisition costs incurred over the duration of the license agreement.
Difficulties in obtaining accurate and comprehensive information necessary to identify the compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service and the ownership thereof may impact our ability to perform our obligations under our licenses, affect the size of our catalog, impact our ability to control content acquisition costs, and lead to potential copyright infringement claims.
This could lead to a reduction of sound recordings available to be streamed on our Service, adversely impacting our ability to retain and expand our user base, and could make it difficult to ensure that we are fully licensed.
These challenges, and others concerning the licensing of musical compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service, may subject us to significant liability for copyright infringement, breach of contract, or other claims.
Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal or Arbitration Proceedings.” New copyright legislation enacted in the United States may increase the costs and/or difficulty of music licensing.
This legislation could, when fully implemented, increase the cost and/or difficulty of obtaining necessary music licenses.
We must ensure that our license agreements for the right to stream sound recordings encompass this new federal right.
We face many risks associated with our international expansion, including difficulties obtaining rights to stream content on favorable terms.
In addition to the above, continued expansion around the world exposes us to other risks such as: • lack of well-functioning copyright collective management organizations that are able to grant us music licenses, process reports, and distribute royalties in markets; • fragmentation of rights ownership in various markets causing lack of transparency of rights coverage and overpayment or underpayment to record labels, music publishers, artists, performing rights organizations, and other copyright owners; • difficulties in obtaining license rights to local content; • increased risk of disputes with and/or lawsuits filed by rights holders in connection with our expansion into new markets (see “Item 8.A.
In order to attain and maintain profitability, we will need to recruit, integrate, and retain skilled and experienced personnel who can demonstrate our value proposition to users, advertisers, and business partners and who can increase the monetization of the music and podcasts streamed on our Service, particularly on mobile devices.
Continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our users, effectively monetize the music and podcasts streamed, develop and improve our operational and financial controls, and recruit, train, and retain highly skilled personnel.
We have experienced rapid growth rates in both the number of active users of our Service and revenue over the last few years.
As we grow larger and increase our user base and usage, we expect it will become increasingly difficult to maintain the rate of growth we currently experience.
Our business emphasizes rapid innovation and prioritizes long-term user engagement over short-term financial condition or results of operations.
Our business is growing and becoming more complex, and our success depends on our ability to quickly develop and launch new and innovative products.
Our culture also prioritizes our long- term user engagement over short-term financial condition or results of operations.
We frequently make decisions that may reduce our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the aggregate user experience and will thereby improve our financial performance over the long-term.
These decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with advertisers and partners, as well as our business, operating results, and financial condition could be seriously harmed.
If we fail to accurately predict, recommend, and play content that our users enjoy, we may fail to retain existing users and attract new users in sufficient numbers to meet investor expectations for growth or to operate our business profitably.
We believe that a key differentiating factor between Spotify and other audio content providers is our ability to predict music or podcasts that our users will enjoy.
In addition, our ability to offer users content that they have not previously heard and impart a sense of discovery depends on our ability to acquire and appropriately categorize additional content that will appeal to our users’ diverse and changing tastes.
While we have a large catalog of music and podcasts available to stream, we must continuously identify and analyze additional content that our users will enjoy and we may not effectively do so.
Our ability to predict and select content that our users enjoy is critical to the perceived value of our Service among users and failure to make accurate predictions could materially adversely affect our ability to adequately attract and retain users, increase content hours consumed, and sell advertising to meet investor expectations for growth or to operate the business profitably.
If we are unable to increase revenue from our Service on mobile and other connected devices, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
Our business model with respect to monetization of our Service on mobile and other connected devices is still evolving.
As users migrate away from personal computers, there is increasing pressure to monetize mobile and other connected devices, including cars and in-home devices.
In all markets, we offer our Ad-Supported Service on mobile, from which we generate advertising revenue.
However, to date, we primarily rely on our Premium Service to generate revenue on mobile and other connected devices.
If we are unable to effectively monetize our Service on mobile and other connected devices, our business, operating results, and financial condition may suffer.
We have incurred significant costs to license content and continue to pay royalties to record labels, publishers, and other copyright owners for such content.
We cannot guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenue from our efforts to monetize the Service via the sale of our Premium Service and generating advertising revenue, including on our Ad-Supported Service, to offset the cost of our content and these royalty expenses.
We expect that, in the future, our revenue growth rate may decline because of a variety of factors, including increased competition and the maturation of our business.
We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: • securing top quality audio and video content from leading record labels, distributors, and aggregators, as well as the publishing right to any underlying musical compositions; • creating new forms of original content; • our technology infrastructure, including website architecture, development tools, scalability, availability, performance, security, and disaster recovery measures; • research and development, including investments in our research and development team and the development of new features; • sales and marketing, including a significant expansion of our field sales organization; • international expansion in an effort to increase our member base, engagement, and sales; • capital expenditures, including costs related to our facilities, that we will incur to grow our operations and remain competitive; and • general administration, including legal and accounting expenses.
Expansion of our operations to deliver content beyond music, including podcasts, subjects us to increased business, legal, financial, reputational, and competitive risks.
Expansion of our operations to deliver content beyond music involves numerous risks and challenges, including increased capital requirements, new competitors, and the need to develop new strategic relationships.
Growth in these areas may require additional changes to our existing business model and cost structure, modifications to our infrastructure, and exposure to new regulatory, legal and reputational risks, including infringement liability, any of which may require additional expertise that we currently do not have.
See “—We may be subject to disputes or liabilities associated with content made available on our Service.” There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from podcasts or other non-music content to offset the costs of creating or acquiring this content.
Further, we have initially established a reputation as a music streaming service and our ability to gain acceptance and listenership for podcasts or other non-music content, and thus our ability to attract users and advertisers to this content, is not certain.
Failure to successfully monetize and generate revenues from such content, including failure to obtain or retain rights to podcasts or other non-music content on acceptable terms, or at all, or to effectively manage the numerous risks and challenges associated with such expansion could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of such commitments, if our user growth and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted.
To the extent our user and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of such content commitments.
16 Streaming depends on effectively working with operating systems, online platforms, hardware, networks, regulations, and standards we do not control.
We rely on a variety of operating systems, online platforms, hardware, and networks to reach our users.
Online platforms also may unilaterally impose certain requirements that negatively affect our ability to convert users to the Premium Service, such as conditions that limit our freedom to communicate promotions and offers to our users.
Moreover, our Service requires high-bandwidth data capabilities.
If the costs of data usage increase or access to data networks is limited, our business may be seriously harmed.
Additionally, to deliver high-quality audio, video, and other content over networks, our Service must work well with a range of technologies, systems, networks, regulations, and standards that we do not control.
In addition, the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity, or use of the internet, including laws governing internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our Service and increase our cost of doing business.
If, as a result of the repeal of these bright-line rules, internet service providers in the United States impede access to certain content, start entering into arrangements with specific content providers for faster or better access over their data networks, or otherwise unfairly discriminate against content providers like us, such conduct could increase our cost of doing business and put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to larger competitors.
Additionally, if, as a result of the repeal of these bright-line rules, mobile providers attempt to limit our users’ ability to access Spotify or make Spotify a less attractive alternative to our competitors’ applications, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be seriously harmed.
If the EU or the courts modify these open internet rules, mobile providers may be able to limit our users’ ability to access Spotify or make Spotify a less attractive alternative to our competitors’ applications.
Many of the products we offer are highly technical and complex, including (i) our Service, (ii) Spotify Connect, which allows users to use the Spotify application to transfer and control playback on speakers, TVs, cars, smart watches and other wearable devices, phones, tablets, computers, game consoles, and other devices, (iii) our application programming interfaces and software development kits, which enable users to interact with, and control playback from, the Service within third-party applications and services, and (iv) services we offer to artists, podcasters, publishers, and other creators, such as Spotify Analytics, Spotify for Artists, Spotify Publishing Analytics, Spotify Ad Studio, Spotify for Podcasters, Soundtrap, Anchor, and SoundBetter, which provide access to various tools.
We rely on systems housed in our own facilities and upon third parties, including bandwidth providers and third-party “cloud” data storage services, to enable our users to receive our content in a dependable, timely, and efficient manner.
We have experienced, and may in the future experience, periodic service interruptions and delays involving our own systems and those of third parties that we work with.
We have transitioned all of our primary data storage (including personal data of users and audio data licensed from rights holders) and computing from our own servers to GCP.
Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal or Arbitration Proceedings.” 19 Our ability to provide our Service is dependent upon our ability to license intellectual property rights to audio content, including sound recordings, any musical compositions embodied therein, and podcasts, as well as visual and related content, such as music videos, clips, album cover art, artist images, and any other media assets that artists and/or labels can add or provide with their tracks.
See “—Difficulties in obtaining accurate and comprehensive information necessary to identify the compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service and the ownership thereof may impact our ability to perform our obligations under our licenses, affect the size of our catalog, impact our ability to control content acquisition costs, and lead to potential copyright infringement claims.” Moreover, while we may often be able to seek indemnities from our licensors with respect to infringement claims that may relate to the content they provide to us, such indemnities may not be sufficient to cover the associated liability if the licensor at issue does not have adequate financial resources.
In addition, music, internet, technology, and media companies are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of intellectual property rights.
We currently own the www.spotify.com internet domain name and various other related domain names.
We regularly review key metrics related to the operation of our business, including, but not limited to, our monthly active users (“MAUs”), Ad-Supported MAUs, Premium average revenue per user (“ARPU”), and Premium Subscribers, to evaluate growth trends, measure our performance, and make strategic decisions.
While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our user base for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring how our Service is used across large populations globally.
For example, we believe that while there are individuals who have multiple Spotify accounts, which we treat as multiple users for purposes of calculating our active users, there are also Spotify accounts that are used by more than one person.
In addition, we are continually seeking to improve our estimates of our user base, and such estimates may change due to improvements or changes in our methodology, including improvements in our ability to identify and/or address previously undetected undesirable user behaviors.
See “—We rely on advertising revenue to monetize our Service, and any failure to convince advertisers of the benefits of advertising on our Service in the future could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition,” “—We are at risk of artificial manipulation of stream counts and failure to effectively manage and remediate such fraudulent streams could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Fraudulent streams and potentially associated fraudulent user accounts or artists may cause us to overstate key performance indicators, which once discovered, corrected, and disclosed, could undermine investor confidence in the integrity of our key performance indicators and could cause our stock price to drop significantly,” and “—We are at risk of attempts to manipulate or exploit our software for the purpose of gaining or providing unauthorized access to certain features of our 21 Service, and failure to effectively prevent and remediate such attempts could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.” We are at risk of artificial manipulation of stream counts and failure to effectively manage and remediate such fraudulent streams could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
We have in the past been, and continue to be, impacted by attempts by third parties to artificially manipulate stream counts.
Such attempts may, for example, be designed to generate revenue for rights holders or to influence placement of content on Spotify- created playlists or industry music charts.
These potentially fraudulent streams may involve creating non-bona fide user accounts or artists or using compromised passwords to access legitimate user accounts.
For example, we have detected instances of botnet operators creating fake user accounts or hackers using passwords compromised as a result of a breach on a non-Spotify service to access legitimate user accounts and streaming specific content repeatedly, thereby generating royalties each time the content is streamed or increasing its visibility on our or third-party charts.
We use a combination of algorithms and manual review by employees to detect fraudulent streams and aim to remove fake user accounts created for the above purposes and filter them out from our metrics on an ongoing basis, as well as to require users to reset passwords that we suspect have been compromised.
However, we may not be successful in detecting, removing, and addressing all fraudulent streams and any related user accounts.
If in the future we fail to successfully detect, remove, and address fraudulent streams and associated user accounts, it may result in the manipulation of our data, including the key performance indicators, which underlie, among other things, our contractual obligations with rights holders and advertisers (which could expose us to the risk of litigation), as well as harm our relationships with rights holders and advertisers.
For example, we have detected instances of third parties seeking to provide mobile device users a means to suppress advertisements without payment and gain access to features only available to the Ad-Supported Service on tablets and desktop computers.
Additionally, compared to our Ad-Supported Users, individuals using unauthorized versions of our application may be less likely to convert to Premium Subscribers.
The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the internet, including laws limiting internet neutrality, artificial intelligence, or machine learning, could decrease user demand for our Service and increase our cost of doing business.
As we collect and utilize personal data about our users as they interact with our Service, we are subject to new and existing laws and regulations that govern our use of user data.
New laws, amendments to, or reinterpretations of existing laws, rules of self-regulatory bodies, industry standards, and contractual obligations, as well as changes in our users’ expectations and demands regarding privacy and data security, may limit our ability to collect, use, and disclose, and to leverage and derive economic value from user data.
Restrictions on our ability to collect, access and harness user data, or to use or disclose user data, may require us to expend significant resources to adapt to these changes, and would in turn limit our ability to stream personalized content to our users and offer advertising and promotional opportunities to users on the Service.
Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data, or any failure or appearance of failure to comply with such laws, could diminish the value of our Service and cause us to lose users and revenue.
In particular, the success of our business has been, and we expect will continue to be, driven by our ability to responsibly use the personal data that our users share with us.
In addition, some of our developers or other partners, such as those that help us measure the effectiveness of ads, may receive or store information provided by us or by our users through mobile or web applications integrated with our Service.
We rely on advertising revenue to monetize our Service, and any failure to convince advertisers of the benefits of advertising on our Service in the future could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Failure to grow the Ad-Supported User base and to effectively demonstrate the value of our Ad-Supported Service and other similar offerings on the Service to advertisers could result in loss of, or reduced spending by, existing or potential future advertisers, which would materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
For example, we need to show that our Ad-Supported Service has substantial reach and engagement by relevant demographic audiences.
Measurement technologies for mobile devices may be even less reliable in quantifying the reach and usage of our Ad-Supported Service, and it is not clear whether such technologies will integrate with our systems or uniformly and comprehensively reflect the reach, usage, or overall audience composition of our Ad-Supported Service.
See “—Our user metrics and other estimates are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in those metrics may seriously harm and negatively affect our reputation and our business.” Emerging industry trends in digital advertising may pose challenges for our ability to forecast or optimize our advertising inventory, which may adversely impact our Ad-Supported revenue.
Other advertisers will measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns based on our ability to serve their ads to audiences that match their demographic data benchmarks, and our ability to meet the requirements of these third party measurement providers may be impacted when we do not have accurate or complete user data.
As these trends in the industry continue to evolve, our advertising revenue may be adversely affected by the availability, accuracy, and utility of analytics and measurement technologies as well as our ability to successfully implement and operationalize such technologies and standards.
Because the majority of our Ad-Supported User hours occur on mobile devices, if we are unable to deploy effective solutions to monetize the mobile device usage by our Ad-Supported User base, our ability to attract advertising spend, and ultimately our advertising revenue, may be adversely affected by this shift.
The evolution of privacy laws, including the GDPR, CCPA and the e-Privacy Regulation (which is still in draft form), may also impact the way we generate revenue from advertising.
See “—Various regulations as well as self-regulation related to privacy and data security concerns pose the threat of lawsuits, regulatory fines, and other liability, require us to expend significant resources, and may harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.” Negative media coverage could adversely affect our business.
26 Our business depends on a strong brand, and any failure to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain or expand our base of Ad-Supported Users, Premium Subscribers, and advertisers.
Maintaining, protecting, and enhancing the “Spotify” brand is critical to expanding our base of Ad-Supported Users, Premium Subscribers, and advertisers, and will depend largely on our ability to continue to develop and provide an innovative and high-quality experience for our users and to attract advertisers, content owners, mobile device manufacturers, and other consumer electronic product manufacturers to work with us, which we may not do successfully.
Our brand may be impaired by a number of other factors, including any failure to keep pace with technological advances on our platform or with our Service, slower load times for our Service, a decline in the quality or quantity of the content available on our Service, a failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or any alleged violations of law, regulations, or public policy.
Additionally, the actions of our developers, advertisers, and content partners may affect our brand if users do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with Spotify or that make use of Spotify content, or brand features.
If we are unable to maintain the growth rate in the number of our Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers, we may be required to expend greater resources than we currently spend on advertising, marketing, and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brand, which would adversely affect our operating results and may not be effective.
We provide various services and products that enable artists, podcasters, and other creators or users to make content available on our Service.
For example, creators or users can record and distribute podcasts using Anchor and can upload cover art and profile images.
An increase in those fees would require us to either increase the prices we charge for our Premium Service, which could cause us to lose Premium Subscribers and subscription revenue, or suffer an increase in our costs without a corresponding increase in the price we charge for our Premium Service, either of which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
In addition, if our billing software fails to work properly and, as a result, we do not automatically charge our Premium Subscribers’ credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
Other payment card associations have proposed additional requirements for trial offers for automatic renewal subscription services, which may hinder our ability to attract or retain Premium Subscribers.
Qualified individuals are in high demand, particularly in the digital media industry, and we may incur significant costs to attract them.
We have recently acquired and invested in, and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in, other companies or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our Service, enhance our technical capabilities or content offerings, or otherwise offer growth opportunities.
For example, the majority of our long term investments relate to Tencent Music Entertainment (“TME”).
Seasonal variations in user and marketing behavior may also cause fluctuations in our financial results.
We expect to experience some effects of seasonal trends in user behavior due to increased internet usage and sales of streaming service subscriptions and devices during holiday periods.
We may also experience higher advertising sales during the fourth quarter of each calendar year due to greater advertiser demand during the holiday season, but also incur greater marketing expenses as we attempt to attract new users to our Service and convert our Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers.
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical and are often discretionary in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions, the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, budgeting constraints and buying patterns, and a variety of other factors, many of which are outside our control.
Our financial performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of advertising spending.
Economic conditions may adversely impact levels of consumer spending, which could adversely impact the number of users who purchase our Premium Service on our website and mobile application.
To the extent that overall economic conditions reduce spending on discretionary activities, our ability to retain current and obtain new Premium Subscribers could be hindered, which could reduce our subscription revenue and negatively impact our business.
On February 14, 2019, we acquired Anchor FM Inc. (“Anchor”), a software company that enables users to create and distribute their own podcasts, for a total purchase consideration of €136 million.
The acquisition allows us to leverage Anchor’s creator-focused platform to accelerate the Group’s path to becoming the world’s leading audio platform.
On February 15, 2019, we acquired Gimlet Media Inc. (“Gimlet”), an independent producer of podcast content, for a total purchase consideration of €172 million.
The acquisition allows us to leverage Gimlet’s in-depth knowledge of original content production and podcast monetization.
With a presence in 79 countries and territories and growing, our platform includes 271 million MAUs and 124 million Premium Subscribers as of December 31, 2019.
Our Premium Subscribers grew 29% year-over-year as of December 31, 2019 to 124 million.
The Premium Service and Ad-Supported Service live independently, but thrive together.
Our Ad-Supported Service serves as a funnel, driving a significant portion of our total gross added Premium Subscribers.
With a 30% increase in revenue from our Ad-Supported Service from 2017 to 2018 and a 25% increase in revenue from our Ad-Supported Service from 2018 to 2019, we believe our Ad-Supported Service is a strong and viable stand-alone product with considerable long-term opportunity for growth in Ad-Supported Users and revenue.
However, we face intense competition in growing both our Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers, as well as in keeping our users highly engaged.
If user engagement declines or if we fail to continue to grow our Ad- Supported User base or Premium Subscriber base, our revenue growth will be negatively impacted.
Selected Financial Data.” Music Industry Returns to Growth Led by Streaming Global recorded music industry revenues grew 10% to $19.1 billion in 2018 following on growth of 8% in 2017, 9% in 2016, and 4% in 2015.
In 2019, our expenses for rights holders grew by 30% compared to the prior year, making us one of the largest engines for revenue growth to artists and labels in the music industry.
Spotify is the Most Popular Global Audio Streaming Subscription Service Spotify has transformed the way people access and enjoy music and podcasts.
Today, millions of people around the world have access to over 50 million tracks, including 700,000 podcast titles, through Spotify whenever and wherever they want.
We are transforming the music industry by allowing users to move from a “transaction-based” experience of buying and owning music to an “access-based” model which allows users to stream music on demand.
In contrast, traditional radio relies on a linear distribution model in which stations and channels are programmed to deliver a limited song selection with little freedom of choice.
We are investing in podcasts and other forms of alternative and spoken word content to complement the music library available through our platform.
More than 16% of our Monthly Active Users as of December 31, 2019 have consumed this kind of content.
If discovery drives delight, and delight drives engagement, and engagement drives discovery, we believe Spotify wins and so do our users.
Our brand reflects culture—and occasionally creates it—by turning vast and intriguing listening data into compelling stories that remind people of the role music plays in their lives and encourages new fans to join Spotify each week.
Our Business Model We offer both Premium and Ad-Supported Services.
Our Premium and Ad-Supported Services live independently, but thrive together.
Our Ad-Supported Service serves as a funnel, driving a significant portion of our total gross added Premium Subscribers.
With a 25% increase in revenue from our Ad-Supported Service from 2018 to 2019, we believe our Ad-Supported Service is a strong and viable stand-alone product with considerable long-term opportunity for growth in Ad-Supported Users and revenue.
However, we face intense competition in growing both our Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers, as well as in keeping our users highly engaged.
If user engagement declines or if we fail to continue to grow our Ad-Supported User base or Premium Subscriber base, our revenue growth will be negatively impacted.
See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—If our efforts to attract prospective users and to retain existing users are not successful, our growth prospects and revenue will be adversely affected.” 41 We continue to invest heavily in developing our two-sided marketplace with new and better product features and functionality for users and creators and believe our investments are leading to higher user engagement and enjoyment.
Our Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers are spending more time with the Service each year.
Combined, our audience streamed 73 billion hours of content for the year ended December 31, 2019, an increase of 34% compared to the year ended December 31, 2018.
In addition to accessing our catalog on computers, tablets, and mobile devices, users can connect through speakers, receivers, televisions, cars, game consoles, and smart watches.
We generate revenue for our Premium segment through the sale of Premium Services.
Premium Services are sold directly to end users and through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from end customers.
We offer a variety of subscription pricing plans for our Premium Service, including our standard plan, Family Plan, and Student Plan, among others, to appeal to users with different lifestyles and across various demographics and age groups.
Our pricing varies by plan and is adapted to each local market to align with consumer purchasing power, general cost levels, and willingness to pay for an audio service.
We also bundle the Premium Service with third-party services and products.
In addition, as we have entered into new markets where recurring subscription services are less common, we have expanded our subscription products to include prepaid options and durations other than monthly (both longer and shorter durations), as well as expanded both online and offline payment options.
Revenue for our Premium segment is a function of the number of Premium Subscribers who use our Premium Service.
As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, we had approximately 124 million and 96 million Premium Subscribers, respectively.
New Premium Subscribers primarily are sourced from the conversion of our Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers.
Through both our online platform and external marketing efforts, we engage our Ad-Supported Users by highlighting key features that encourage conversion to our subscription offerings.
Additionally, new subscriber growth also is driven by the success of converting users from our trial programs to full-time Premium Subscribers.
Ad-Supported Service Our Ad-Supported Service has no subscription fees and generally provides Ad-Supported Users with limited on-demand online access to our catalog of music and unlimited online access to our catalog of podcasts on their computers, tablets, and compatible mobile devices.
We generate revenue for our Ad-Supported segment from the sale of display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions across our music and podcast content.
Revenue for our Ad-Supported segment is affected primarily by, but not limited to, the number of our Ad-Supported Users, the total content hours per MAU of our Ad- Supported Users, and our ability to provide innovative advertising products that are relevant to our Ad-Supported Users and enhance returns for our advertising partners.
Our advertising strategy centers on the belief that advertising products that are based in music and 42 podcasts and are relevant to the Ad-Supported User can enhance Ad-Supported Users’ experiences and provide even greater returns for advertisers.
We have historically introduced, and continue to introduce, new advertising products across both music and podcast content.
Below is a summary of certain provisions of our license agreements relating to sound recordings and the musical compositions embodied therein (i.e., the musical notes and the lyrics), as well as podcasts and other non-music content.
Rights to sound recordings granted pursuant to these agreements accounted for over 82% of music streams for the year ended December 31, 2019.
See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Minimum guarantees required under certain of our license agreements may limit our operating flexibility and may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.” We also have direct license agreements with independent labels, as well as companies known as “aggregators” (for example, Believe Digital, CDBaby, Distrokid, and TuneCore).
If any such rate change increases our content acquisition costs and impacts our ability to obtain content on pricing terms favorable to us, it could hinder our ability to provide interactive features in our services, or cause one or more of our services not to be economically viable.
These agreements have music usage reporting obligations on Spotify and audit rights for the PROs.
We cannot guarantee that our licenses with collecting societies and our direct licenses with publishers provide full coverage for all of the musical compositions we make available to our users in such countries.
Our license agreements with local collecting societies and direct license agreements with publishers worldwide are generally in place for one to three years and provide for reporting obligations on both Spotify and the licensor and auditing rights for the licensors.
Podcast License Agreements with Podcasters and Podcast Networks With respect to podcasts and other non-music content for which we obtain distribution rights directly from rights holders, we either negotiate licenses directly with individuals or entities or obtain rights through our owned and operated platforms, such as Anchor, Soundtrap for Storytellers, and Spotify for Podcasters, that enable creators to post content directly to our Service after agreeing to comply with the applicable terms and conditions.
Sales and marketing 100 % Spain Spotify GmbH Sales and marketing 100 % Germany Spotify France SAS Sales and marketing 100 % France Spotify Netherlands B.V.
Sales and marketing 100 % Netherlands Spotify Canada Inc.
With a presence in 79 countries and territories and growing, our platform includes 271 million MAUs and 124 million Premium Subscribers as of December 31, 2019.
Our Premium Subscribers grew 29% year-over-year as of December 31, 2019 to 124 million.
How We Generate Revenue We operate and manage our business in two reportable segments—Premium and Ad-Supported.
In addition to accessing our catalog on computers, tablets, and mobile devices, users can connect through speakers, receivers, televisions, cars, game consoles, and smart watches.
We generate revenue for our Premium segment through the sale of the Premium Service.
The Premium Service is sold directly to end users and through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from the end user.
We offer a variety of subscription pricing plans for our Premium Service, including our standard plan, Family Plan, and Student Plan, among others, to appeal to users with different lifestyles and across various demographics and age groups.
Our pricing varies by plan and is adapted to each local market to align with consumer purchasing power, general cost levels, and willingness to pay for an audio service.
We also bundle the Premium Service with third-party services and products.
In addition, as we have entered into new markets where recurring subscription services are less common, we have expanded our subscription products to include prepaid options and durations other than monthly (both longer and shorter durations), as well as expanded both online and offline payment options.
Revenue for our Premium segment is a function of the number of Premium Subscribers who subscribe to our Premium Service.
New Premium Subscribers are sourced primarily from the conversion of our Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers.
Through both our online platform and external marketing efforts, we engage our Ad-Supported Users by highlighting key features that encourage conversion to our subscription offerings.
Additionally, new Premium Subscriber growth is driven by the success of converting users from our trial campaigns to full-time Premium Subscribers.
The rate of net growth in Premium Subscribers also is affected by our ability to retain our existing Premium Subscribers and the mix of subscription pricing plans.
We have increased retention over time, as new features and functionality have led to increased user engagement and satisfaction.
We have found that Premium Subscribers who access our Service over multiple devices have higher engagement and lower Premium Churn, which increases their expected lifetime value to Spotify.
Ad-Supported Our Ad-Supported Service has no subscription fees and generally provides Ad-Supported Users with limited on-demand online access to our catalog of music and unlimited online access to our catalog of podcasts on their computers, tablets, and compatible mobile devices.
It serves as both a Premium Subscriber acquisition channel and a robust option for users who are unable or unwilling to pay a monthly subscription fee but still want to enjoy access to a wide variety of high-quality audio content.
We generate revenue for our Ad-Supported segment from the sale of display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions across our music and podcast content.
Revenue for our Ad-Supported segment is comprised primarily of the number and hours of engagement of our Ad-Supported Users and our ability to provide innovative advertising products that are relevant to our Ad- Supported Users and enhance returns for our advertising partners.
Our advertising strategy centers on the belief that advertising products that are based in music and podcasts and are relevant to the Ad-Supported User can enhance Ad-Supported Users’ experiences and provide even greater returns for advertisers.
Revenue from our Ad-Supported segment also will be impacted by the demographic profile of our Ad-Supported Users, our ability to enable advertisers to reach their target audience with relevant advertising in the geographic markets in which we operate.
A large percentage of our Ad-Supported Users are between 18 and 34 years old.
By offering advertisers increased “self-serve options,” we expect to improve the efficiency and scalability of our advertising platform.
Monetizing our Ad-Supported User base has historically been, and is expected to remain, more challenging in our two fastest growing regions, Latin America and the rest of the world, compared to Europe and North America.
Cost of revenue consists predominantly of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.
We incur royalty costs, which we pay to certain record labels, music publishers, and other rights holders, for the right to stream music to our users.
Generally, Premium Service royalties are based on the greater of a percentage of revenue and a per user amount.
Royalties for the Ad-Supported Service are typically a percentage of revenue, although certain agreements are based on the greater of a percentage of revenue and an amount for each time a sound recording and musical composition is streamed.
We have negotiated lower per user amounts for our lower priced subscription plans such as Family Plan and Student Plan users.
The targets can include such measures as the number of Premium Subscribers, the ratio of Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers, and/or the rates of Premium Subscriber churn.
Cost of revenue also includes credit card and payment processing fees for subscription revenue, customer service, certain employee compensation and benefits, cloud computing, streaming, facility, and equipment costs, as well as amounts incurred to produce podcasts and other content.
Direct costs incurred to acquire or develop podcasts are recognized as current assets.
While we believe our trial programs help drive incremental revenue and gross margins as users convert to full-time Premium Subscribers, these trial programs, which historically have typically begun in the last month of the second and fourth quarters of each year, have led to decreases in gross margins in the first and third calendar quarters as we absorb the promotional expenses of the discounted trial offers.
We invest heavily in research and development in order to drive user engagement and customer satisfaction on our platform, which we believe helps to drive organic growth in new MAUs, which in turn drives additional growth in, and better retention of, Premium Subscribers, as well as increased advertising opportunities to Ad-Supported Users.
Expenses primarily comprise costs incurred for development of products related to our platform and Service, as well as new advertising products and improvements to our mobile application and desktop application and streaming services.
Sales and marketing expenses primarily comprise employee compensation and benefits, public relations, branding, consulting expenses, customer acquisition costs, advertising, live events and trade shows, amortization of trade name intangible assets, the cost of working with music record labels, publishers, songwriters, and artists to promote the availability of new releases on our platform, and the costs of providing free trials of Premium Services.
We define MAUs as the total count of Ad- Supported Users and Premium Subscribers that have consumed content for greater than zero milliseconds in the last thirty days from the period-end indicated.
The increase in MAUs benefited from our continued investment in driving the growth of our Service, both through geographic expansion and consumer marketing.
The increase also benefited from continued investment in content and features on our platform, including 48 featured playlists, artist marketing campaigns, podcasts, and original content, to drive increased user engagement and customer satisfaction.
MAUs were positively impacted by an increase in Premium Subscribers, as noted below.
Premium Subscribers We define Premium Subscribers as users that have completed registration with Spotify and have activated a payment method for Premium Service.
Our Family Plan consists of one primary subscriber and up to five additional sub-accounts, allowing up to six Premium Subscribers per Family Plan Subscription.
The table below sets forth our Premium Subscribers as of December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017.
As of December 31, Change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in millions, except percentages) Premium Subscribers 124 96 71 28 29 % 26 36 % Premium Subscribers were 124 million as of December 31, 2019.
Further, our free trial offers and global campaigns contributed 23% and 10% of gross added Premium Subscribers during 2019, respectively.
Ad-Supported MAUs We define Ad-Supported MAUs as the total count of Ad-Supported Users that have consumed content for greater than zero milliseconds in the last thirty days from the period-end indicated.
Growth in Ad-Supported MAUs benefited from our continued investment in driving the growth of our Ad-Supported Service, both through geographic expansion and consumer marketing.
The increase also benefited from continued investment in content and features on our platform, including featured playlists, artist marketing campaigns, podcasts, and original content, to drive increased Ad-Supported User engagement and customer satisfaction.
The decrease in Premium ARPU for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to 2018, was due principally to the continued growth of the Family Plan and an increase in the number of subscribers on free trials, reducing Premium ARPU by €0.08 and €0.05, respectively.
The increase was attributable primarily to a 29% increase in Premium Subscribers.
Ad-Supported revenue For the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, Ad-Supported revenue comprised 10% of our total revenue.
This increase was due primarily to a 17% increase in the number of impressions sold, driven largely by the growth in our programmatic channel, which grew revenue 47% year-over-year, accounting for 25% of our Ad-Supported revenue.
In addition, there was an increase in revenue from podcasts of €19 million.
The increase in Premium cost of revenue was driven by an increase in new Premium Subscribers resulting in higher royalty costs, payment fees, and streaming delivery costs of €898 million, €43 million, and €17 million respectively.
The increase in Ad- Supported cost of revenue is driven by growth in advertising revenue resulting in higher royalty costs and streaming delivery costs of €93 million and €6 million, respectively, and an increase in podcasts costs of €16 million.
The decrease in margin was largely driven by an increase in content costs, including podcast costs, that outpaced revenue growth.
Premium Services are sold directly to end users and through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from the end user.
Premium Services sold directly to end users are typically paid monthly in advance.
We satisfy our performance obligation, and revenue from these services is recognized, on a straight-line basis over the subscription period.
We satisfy our performance obligation, and revenue from these services is recognized, on a straight-line basis over the subscription period.
We also bundle the Premium Service with third-party services and products.
For each performance obligation within the bundle, revenue is recognized either on a straight-line basis over the subscription period or at a point in time when control of the service or product is transferred to the customer.
Ad-Supported Revenue We generate revenue for our Ad-Supported segment primarily through display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions and podcast downloads.
Content We incur royalty costs for the right to stream music to our users, paid to certain music record labels and other rights holders.
Calculations are based on either Premium and Ad- Supported revenue earned or user/usage measures or a combination of these.
In particular, in certain jurisdictions rights holders have several years to claim royalties for works streamed each month.
See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—We may require additional capital to support business growth and objectives, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.” On November 5, 2018, Spotify Technology S.A. announced that it would commence a share repurchase program that began in the fourth quarter of 2018.
D. Trend Information Our results reflect the effects of our bi-annual trial programs, in addition to seasonal trends in user behavior and, with respect to our Ad-Supported segment, advertising behavior.
Historically, Premium Subscriber growth accelerates when we run bi-annual trial 58 programs in the summer and winter, which typically begin in the last month of the second and fourth quarters.
For our Ad-Supported segment, typically we experience higher advertising revenues in the fourth quarter of each calendar year due to greater advertising demand during the holiday season.
However, in the first quarter of each calendar year, we typically experience a seasonal decline in advertising revenue due to reduced advertiser demand.
Subsequent to the period end, the Group signed license agreements with certain music labels and publishers and podcast agreements with creators.
He oversees the product, design, data, and engineering teams at Spotify and is responsible for our product strategy.
She also brings experience in digital strategies and multi-market growth.
Before joining Spotify, he spent the majority of his career in the investment community as a portfolio manager and equity research analyst, most recently serving as a Managing Director and Head of the Internet and Media Equity Research team at Barclays.
Executive Compensation Philosophy and Objectives We operate in the highly competitive and dynamic digital media industry as the world’s most popular global audio streaming subscription service.
To succeed in this environment, we must continuously develop solutions that meet the needs of our rapidly growing user base in a rapidly changing environment, efficiently develop and refine new and existing products and services, and demonstrate a strong return on investment to our advertisers.
Business Overview” for a discussion of our sales and distribution channels.
As explained in Note 2 in the consolidated financial statements, cost of revenue and rights holder liabilities consist predominantly of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.
In our opinion, Spotify Technology S.A. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2019, based on the COSO criteria.
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) is audio streaming.
The Group’s premium service (“Premium Service”) provides users with unlimited online and offline high-quality streaming access to its catalog of music and podcasts.
The Group’s ad-supported service (“Ad-Supported Service,” and together with the Premium Service, the “Service”) has no subscription fees and generally provides users with limited on-demand online access to the catalog of music and unlimited online access to the catalog of podcasts.
(d) Revenue recognition Premium revenue The Group generates subscription revenue from the sale of the Premium Service in which customers can listen on-demand and offline.
Premium Services are sold directly to end users and through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from their end customers.
The Group satisfies its performance obligation, and revenue from these services is recognized, on a straight-line basis over the subscription period.
Premium partner subscription revenue is based on a per-subscriber rate in a negotiated partner agreement.
Additionally, the Group bundles the Premium Service with third-party services and products.
For each performance obligation within the bundle, revenue is recognized either on a straight-line basis over the subscription period or at a point in time when control of the service or product is transferred to the customer.
Ad-Supported revenue The Group’s advertising revenue is primarily generated through display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions and podcast downloads.
(g) Cost of revenue Cost of revenue consists predominantly of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.
The Group incurs royalty costs paid to certain music record labels, music publishers, and other rights holders for the right to stream music to the Group’s users.
The determination of the amount of the rights holders’ liability is complex and subject to a number of variables, including the revenue recognized, the type of content streamed and the country in which it is streamed, the product tier such content is streamed on, identification of the appropriate license holder, size of user base, ratio of Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers, and any applicable advertising fees and discounts, among other variables.
Cost of revenue also includes credit card and payment processing fees for subscription revenue, customer service, certain employee compensation and benefits, cloud computing, streaming, facility, and equipment costs, as well as amounts incurred to produce content for the service.
Direct costs incurred to acquire or develop podcasts are recognized as current assets.
(h) Research and development expenses Research and development expenses are primarily comprised of costs incurred for development of products related to the Group’s platform and service, as well as new advertising products and improvements to the Group’s mobile app, desktop, and streaming services.
Revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed.
The increase in deferred revenue in 2019 is a result of an increase in the number of Premium Subscribers.
Anchor FM Inc. On February 14, 2019, the Group acquired Anchor FM Inc. (“Anchor”), a software company that enables users to create and distribute their own podcasts.
The acquisition allows the Group to leverage Anchor’s creator-focused platform to accelerate the Group’s path to becoming the world’s leading audio platform.
The acquisition allows the Group to leverage Gimlet’s in-depth knowledge of original content production and podcast monetization.
The Premium Service is a paid service in which customers can listen on-demand and offline.
Revenue is generated primarily through the sale of advertising.
The remaining royalties that are not specifically associated to either of the segments are allocated based on user activity or the revenue recognized in each segment.
As of December 31, 2019, the Robertson v. Spotify, Bluewater v. Spotify, Gaudio v. Spotify, and A4V v. Spotify lawsuits have all been dismissed.
On November 5, 2018, Spotify Technology S.A. announced that it would commence a share repurchase program beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018.
F-47 Recurring fair value measurements Long term investment – Tencent Music Entertainment Group The Group’s approximate 8% investment in TME is carried at fair value through other comprehensive income.
As a general matter, the music and other content made available on the Group’s service are licensed to the Group by various third parties.
Sales and marketing 100 % Spain Spotify GmbH Sales and marketing 100 % Germany Spotify France SAS Sales and marketing 100 % France Spotify Netherlands B.V.
Sales and marketing 100 % Netherlands Spotify Canada Inc.
Subsequent to year-end, the Group signed license agreements with certain music labels and publishers and podcast agreements with creators.