PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world.
We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals including photographers, video editors, designers and developers; communicators including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media.
We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices.
We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com.
We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models.
We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators (“SIs”), independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).
In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions.
The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. BUSINESS OVERVIEW For over 35 years, Adobe’s innovations have transformed how individuals, teams, businesses and governments engage and interact with their constituents in print and online.
We help our customers create and deliver the most compelling experiences in streamlined workflows and optimize those experiences for greater return on investment.
While we continue to offer a broad portfolio of products, services and solutions, we focus our investments in two strategic growth areas: Digital Media – providing products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share and engage with documents and creative content.
Our customers include creative professionals like photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers, and app and game developers; communicators like content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content; and consumers.
Digital Experience – providing a comprehensive and integrated platform and set of applications and services through Adobe Experience Cloud that enable brands and businesses of all sizes to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce.
Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers, marketing executives, information management and technology executives, product development executives and sales and support executives.
Underpinning Adobe Experience Cloud is our Adobe Experience Platform, which provides businesses and brands with an open and extensible platform for customer experience management that transforms customer data into real-time robust customer profiles and uses insights driven by artificial intelligence (“AI”) to enable the delivery of personalized digital experiences in milliseconds.
By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Experience offerings, we help our customers more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across channels and devices with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop.
We believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in both the Digital Media and Digital Experience markets, where our mission to change the world through digital experiences has never been more relevant, as people seek new ways to communicate, learn and conduct business virtually.
By integrating products from each of these areas, our customers are able to utilize a comprehensive suite of solutions and services that no other company currently offers.
In addition, our ability to deliver innovation and productivity improvements across customer workflows involving the creation, management, delivery, measurement and optimization of engaging content favorably positions Adobe as our customers continue to invest in delivering digital experiences.
SEGMENTS Our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience and Publishing and Advertising.
These segments provide Adobe’s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses.
Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities further described below, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our Publishing and Advertising segment in order to more closely align our Digital Experience business with our strategic growth priorities.
In today’s world where the velocity of creation and consumption of digital content is constantly growing, design and creativity have never been more relevant and customers are looking for a way to meet demand with engaging online experiences.
Adobe is in a strong position to capitalize on this opportunity with innovation that will accelerate the creative process across all platforms and devices, deepen engagement with communities and accelerate long-term revenue growth by focusing on cloud-based offerings, which are licensed on a subscription basis.
The flagship of our Digital Media business is Adobe Creative Cloud — a subscription service that allows members to use Adobe’s creative products integrated with cloud-delivered services across desktop, web and mobile devices.
Creative Cloud addresses the needs of creative professionals such as artists, designers, developers, students and administrators, as well as knowledge workers, marketers, educators, hobbyists, communicators and consumers, all of whom use our products to create and deliver content.
Our customers rely on our products for content creation, design, video and animation production, mobile app and gaming development, and document creation and collaboration.
End users of our creative products work in businesses of all sizes ranging from large publishers, media companies and global enterprises, to smaller design agencies and individual freelancers.
Moreover, our creative products are used to create much of the printed and online information people see, read and 4 Table of Contents interact with every day, including video, animation, mobile and advertising content.
Creative Cloud members can download and access the latest versions of our creative products such as Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe Premiere Pro, Lightroom, InDesign, Adobe XD and many more creative applications.
To expand our reach and improve the way we serve the needs of our customers, we create different combinations of these services, including our applications with free and paid tiers such as Adobe XD and Adobe Fresco, that have brought new customers into our franchise.
Through Creative Cloud, members can access online services to sync, store and share files across users’ devices, access marketplace, social and community-based features within our Adobe Stock and Behance services, and create apps and websites, all at affordable subscription pricing.
Adobe continues to redefine the creative process with Creative Cloud so that our customers can obtain everything they need to create, collaborate and be inspired.
Adobe’s Digital Media segment includes our Document Cloud business, built around our Acrobat family of products and a unified, cloud-based document services platform, which includes Acrobat, Adobe Sign and Adobe Scan.
Across industries and across the world, business processes from contracting to invoicing to employee onboarding are making the change from paper to digital documents, a trend that has accelerated as businesses of all sizes shifted to remote work as a result of the pandemic.
Cloud services and mobile devices are reshaping how we work, enabling greater flexibility and collaboration across global, dispersed teams.
Digital Media Strategy Our goal is to be the leading platform for creativity where we offer a range of products and services that allow individuals, small and medium businesses, enterprises and government institutions, and both professionals and enthusiasts, to design and deliver amazing digital content.
We believe there is significant opportunity for growth across all customer segments and expect Adobe Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by using our products to enable everyone to create and tell their stories on a variety of surfaces and platforms, expanding into new categories and technologies like immersive 3D and AR, making the creative process more iterative and collaborative with seamless cloud- enabled collaboration and workflows, delivering intelligent, time-saving features with Adobe Sensei’s artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities, and acquiring new users by engaging with the creative community with live tutorials and our social communities like Behance.
We continue to develop more applications and features like Creative Cloud Libraries that enable collaboration and allow our customers to seamlessly share and access their assets in the cloud.
We are pursuing new ways to engage and inspire our community and help our customers develop creative skills such as allowing creators to live-stream their creative process on Behance directly from native Creative Cloud applications and allowing users to learn with step-by-step, in-app, interactive tutorials from experienced creators.
With our Adobe Stock and Adobe Fonts services, we offer marketplaces that are built into our Creative Cloud products for Creative Cloud subscribers to purchase stock content and fonts.
As appropriate, we plan to optimize our pricing strategy and move our customers to higher-priced and better-value offerings and continue to employ targeted promotions that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Adobe Creative Cloud.
As part of our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize a data-driven operating model and our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions to drive and optimize customer awareness, engagement and licensing of our creative products and services at every stop of the customer journey through our website and across other channels.
Adobe.com is the central destination where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions.
We offer free apps and trials, as well as our mobile and tablet apps, to attract new customers and use our data-driven operating model to optimize conversion of these customers to paid subscribers.
Our collaboration services also help us expand our universe of business customers beyond creative professionals, as other stakeholders use our products for review purposes, copywriting or leveraging templates for social media marketing.
We utilize channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for teams offering.
Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for enterprise offering.
Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably.
We offer many of the products included in Creative Cloud on a standalone basis, including subscriptions to the Creative Cloud version of certain point products.
We also offer a range of other creative tools and services, including our hobbyist products such as Photoshop Elements and Premiere Elements, libraries of creative assets like Adobe Stock and Adobe Fonts and tailored, mobile-first apps such as Photoshop Camera, Adobe Aero, Adobe Capture, Adobe Fresco for iPhone, Premiere Rush and Adobe Spark that allow creators to capture, create, enhance and share content within seconds.
Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under “Principal Products and Services.” In our Adobe Document Cloud business, Adobe Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption and a leadership position in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing.
As digital documents and processes become central to business continuity in today’s remote work environment, the paper-to-digital transformation is accelerating and we’re accelerating document productivity in turn with Adobe Document Cloud, enabling individuals and businesses to operate successfully.
We expect to drive sustained long-term revenue growth in Document Cloud through a continued expansion of our customer base by delivering the best PDF experience on every platform and across platforms, expanding the number of actions and features in Acrobat, using Adobe Sensei across our document products and services to make both new and legacy documents more intelligent and responsive, and investing in embedded document services such as integrating Acrobat and Adobe Sign functionality in third-party applications.
As with our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize a data-driven operating model to market our Document Cloud solutions and optimize our subscription-based pricing for individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government institutions around the world.
We aim to increase our seat penetration in our key markets through the utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs.
We also intend to increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, as well as on expanding into emerging markets.
We will continue to engage in strategic partnerships to help drive the enterprise business, including our partnerships with Microsoft, Workday, ServiceNow and Notarize.
Our Adobe Sign service also provides a green alternative to costly paper-based solutions, and is a more modern and convenient way for customers to digitally manage their documents, processes and contract workflows.
We believe that by growing the awareness of electronic signatures in the broader contract delivery and signing market, utilizing Adobe Sensei to enhance customer experiences through machine learning and AI, and continuing to add new capabilities to our Acrobat, Adobe Scan and Adobe Sign offerings, we can help our customers migrate away from paper-based express mailing and adopt our solution to modernize and digitize document experiences, growing our revenue with this business in the process.
Digital Experience Digital Experience Opportunity Digital transformation is a macro trend that affects every business, government and educational institution today – making every business a digital business.
As a result, businesses must determine how to best attract, engage, acquire and retain customers in a digital world where the reach and quality of experiences directly impact success.
To deliver these multi-channel experiences that are personalized to every customer, executives are increasingly demanding solutions that optimize their consumers’ experiences in real time and deliver the greatest return on marketing and IT spend so they can demonstrate the business impact of their programs using objective metrics.
For the past decade, Adobe Experience Cloud has helped businesses provide exceptional experiences to their customers via a comprehensive suite of solutions.
The world’s leading brands are increasingly steering their marketing, advertising and development budgets toward digital experiences.
As more and more enterprises continue this move to digital, our opportunity is accelerating as brands seek vendors to help them navigate this transition.
Our Adobe Experience Cloud business targets this large and growing opportunity to help companies deliver the most engaging customer experiences by providing an integrated, comprehensive set of solutions for customer experience management.
Together, our applications, services and platforms provide real-time data and insights, deliver personalized content and commerce at scale, enable customer journey management and provide a powerful platform for work management.
Our solutions address analytics, personalization, digital experience management, marketing automation and engagement, cross- channel campaign management, content management, creative asset management, audience management, digital commerce, order management, predictive intelligence and monetization.
Collectively, these comprehensive solutions enable marketers to measure, personalize and optimize digital experiences across all channels and touch points to drive stronger business performance throughout the customer journey.
We believe the market for Adobe Experience Cloud is large and rapidly growing as more businesses and enterprises invest in solutions that aid their goals to transform how they engage with their customers and constituents digitally.
Digital Experience Strategy Our goal is to be the leading provider of cloud-based solutions for delivering digital experiences and enabling digital transformation.
The Adobe Experience Cloud applications and services are designed to manage customer journeys, enable shoppable experiences and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry.
Our differentiation and competitive advantage is strengthened by our ability to use the Adobe Experience Platform to connect our comprehensive set of solutions.
Adobe Experience Cloud delivers the following sets of solutions for our customers: • Customer data and insights.
Our solutions deliver real-time customer profiles and intelligence across the customer journey.
Adobe’s Real-time Customer Data Platform service, built on Adobe Experience Platform, delivers real-time personalization at scale to enable brands to bring together known and unknown customer data to activate customer profiles across channels and leverage intelligent decision making throughout the customer journey.
We offer solutions to help customers manage, deliver, test, target and optimize content delivery and enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses.
Our leading digital experience management solution, Adobe Experience Manager, helps customers organize, create, manage and deliver creative assets and other content across digital marketing channels, including web, mobile, email, communities and video, enabling customers to improve their market and brand perception and provide a personalized experience to their consumers.
Adobe Commerce, which integrates with Adobe Experience Manager, enables our customers to create content and promotions for storefronts on every platform and provides a highly customizable and scalable end-to-end platform to manage, personalize and optimize the commerce experience across every touchpoint by bringing together digital commerce, order management and predictive intelligence to enable engaging shopping experiences across B2C and B2B.
Our solutions help businesses manage, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across B2E use cases.
Adobe Campaign enables marketers to manage the B2C customer journey and use rich customer data to create, coordinate and deliver dynamic, personalized experiences that are synchronized across multiple channels and determined by each consumer’s behaviors and preferences.
Marketo Engage is a complete customer experience management solution optimized for B2B, cross-channel campaigns requiring lead management, account-based marketing and revenue attribution technology by bringing together planning, engagement and measurement capabilities into an integrated marketing platform.
Workfront helps customers orchestrate content creation and campaign workflows across marketing and creative teams.
Adobe acquired Workfront, Inc. on December 7, 2020 and began integrating its work management platform into the Adobe Experience Cloud.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we began to discontinue our transaction-driven Advertising Cloud offerings, allowing us to focus our investment on strategic growth initiatives.
We continue to offer our Advertising Cloud software solutions, but they are not expected to be areas of revenue growth.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our Publishing and Advertising segment, in order to more closely align our Digital Experience business with the strategic growth opportunity.
Adobe Experience Cloud offers domain-specific AI services powered by Adobe Sensei that work with Adobe Experience Platform to augment existing Experience Cloud product offerings.
These AI services help provide domain- specific intelligence in areas such as attribution and automated insights, customer journey management, lead management, sentiment analysis, one-click personalization, enhanced anomaly detection and more.
Adobe Experience Cloud also offers an open platform and ecosystem through its multi-cloud foundation, the Adobe Experience Platform, AI services powered by Adobe Sensei and developer services through Adobe I/O.
Adobe Experience Platform provides the underlying infrastructure to make customer experience management possible by standardizing data into an easily sharable format consumable by Adobe Sensei and provides an open and extensible cloud infrastructure for Adobe Experience Cloud that allows data to flow freely within the Adobe Experience Platform and between Adobe Experience Cloud solutions and third-party software.
To drive growth of Adobe Experience Cloud, we are focused on delivering the best customer experience management solutions for B2E, enterprise and mid-market through our applications, services and platform.
We also intend to focus on customer engagement, growing within existing customer accounts, and product differentiation.
We have expanded our customers to include Chief Information Officers and are continuing to invest in Adobe Experience Platform integrations with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Audience Manager, as well as new services such as Intelligent Services, Customer Journey Analytics and our Real-time Customer Data Platform, to create a truly comprehensive customer data and insights offering.
To give our customers increased flexibility and expand our reach, we are also delivering new functionality through additional services delivered on the Adobe Experience Platform such as Journey Orchestration.
We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Experience Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, SIs and ISVs that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers.
Strategic partnerships, such as the one we have formed with Microsoft, continue to increase our market reach.
We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market and believe these investments will result in continued growth in revenue in our Digital Experience segment in fiscal 2021 and beyond.
Publishing and Advertising Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and, starting in the fourth quarter of 2020, our Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings.
Adobe Advertising Cloud delivers an end-to-end platform for managing advertising across digital formats, and simplifies the delivery of video, display and search advertising across channels and screens.
We generate revenue in our legacy Publishing products and services by licensing our technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output devices, and generate revenue in Advertising through usage-based offerings.
Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and better integrate our existing products, introduce new products on a timely and cost- effective basis, meet changing customer needs, provide best-in-class information security to build customer confidence and combat cyber-attacks, extend our core technology into new applications and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological changes.
Digital Media No single company has offerings that match the capabilities of our Adobe Creative Cloud products and services, but we face collective competition from a variety of point offerings, free products and downloadable apps.
Our competition includes offerings from companies such as Apple, Autodesk, Avid, Corel, Microsoft, Affinity and others, as well as from many lower- end offerings.
We believe our greatest advantage in this space is the performance and scope of our integrated solutions, which work together as part of Creative Cloud.
With Creative Cloud, we compete favorably on the basis of features and functionality, ease of use, product reliability, value and performance characteristics.
In this area, we face direct and indirect competition from desktop software companies and various proprietary and open source web-authoring tools.
Our software also faces competition from free or low-cost storage and synchronization products that encourage consumers to use their integrated image and video editing solutions.
Our imaging and video offerings, including Photoshop, Lightroom, After Effects, Premiere Pro and Premiere Rush, face competition from established and emerging companies offering similar products.
Our consumer digital imaging and video editing offerings are subject to intense competition, including customer price sensitivity and competitor brand awareness.
We face direct and indirect competition in the consumer digital imaging space from a number of companies whose mobile and tablet apps compete with our offerings.
Partnerships and integrations between these companies and third parties create an increasingly competitive landscape in this space.
The stock content marketplace has significant competition, especially in the microstock segment, where Adobe primarily operates today with our Adobe Stock offering.
Key competitors in this segment include Shutterstock, Getty Images and a number of smaller companies.
Deep product integration with Adobe Creative Cloud and superior reach and relationships with creative professionals around the world differentiate our Adobe Stock offerings.
Competitors like Microsoft, Google, Box, Dropbox and DocuSign all offer competitive alternatives to our Adobe Document Cloud business for creating and managing PDFs and e-signatures.
To address these competitive threats, we are working to ensure our Document Cloud applications stay at the forefront of innovation in emerging opportunities such as PDF document generation, document collaboration and document security, document workflow management, easeful software integrations, enablement of paper to digital transformations, and accessibility and usability on multiple devices, including mobile and desktop.
Digital Experience The markets in which our Digital Experience business unit competes are growing rapidly and characterized by intense competition.
Our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions face competition from large companies such as Google, Oracle, salesforce.com, SAP, SAS, Shopify, Sitecore, BigCommerce and others, in addition to point product solutions and focused competitors.
Some of these competitors provide SaaS solutions to customers, generally through a web browser, while others provide software that is installed by customers directly on their servers.
In addition, we compete at times with our customers’ or potential customers’ internally-developed applications.
Of the competitors listed above, no single company has products identical in breadth and depth to our Adobe Experience Cloud offerings.
Adobe Experience Cloud competes in a variety of areas, including reporting and analytics, cross-channel marketing and optimization, online marketing, audience management, marketing automation, customer data platforms, digital commerce enablement, order management, web experience management, customer experience management and others.
Large software, internet and database management companies have expanded their offerings in the digital experience area, either by developing competing services or by acquiring existing competitors or strategic partners of ours.
We believe competitive factors in our markets include the proven performance, security, scalability, flexibility and reliability of services; 10 Table of Contents the strategic relationships and integration with third-party applications; the intuitiveness and visual appeal of user interfaces; demonstrable cost-effective benefits to customers; pricing; the flexibility of services to match changing business demands; enterprise-level customer service and training; perceived market leadership; the usability of services; real-time data and reporting; independence from portals and search engines; the ability to deploy the services globally; and success in educating customers in how to utilize services effectively.
We believe we compete favorably with both the enterprise and low-cost alternatives based on many of these competitive factors including our strong feature set, the breadth of our offerings, our focus on global, multi-brand companies, our superior user experience, tools for building multi-screen, cross-channel applications, standards-based architecture, scalability and performance and leadership in industry standards efforts.
Creative and digital agencies, as well as SIs, are increasingly investing in acquiring their own digital experience technology to complement their creative services offerings.
Adobe may face competition from these agencies and SIs as they come to market with best-of-breed offerings in one or more digital experience capabilities, or if agencies attempt to create a more complete technology platform offering.
We have worked closely with marketing and creative customers for over 30 years.
Our comprehensive solutions extend more broadly than any other company in serving the needs of marketers and addressing this market opportunity; we integrate content and data, analytics, personalization, digital experience management, marketing automation, cross-channel campaign management, digital commerce, audience management and customer intelligence in our Adobe Experience Cloud enabled by the Adobe Experience Platform.
Most importantly, we provide a vision for our Digital Experience customers as we engage with them across the important aspects of their business, extending from their use of Adobe Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud to how they manage, deliver, measure and monetize their content, participate in digital commerce, and create highly personalized and engaging shoppable experiences with our Experience Cloud.
Publishing and Advertising Our Publishing and Advertising product offerings face competition from large-scale publishing systems, XML-based publishing companies, as well as lower-end desktop publishing products.
Similarly, our web conferencing product faces competition from a number of established products from other companies, including Cisco, Citrix and Microsoft.
Competition involves a number of factors, including product features, ease-of-use, printer service support, the level of customization and integration with other publishing system components, the number of hardware platforms supported, service and price.
We believe that our competitive advantages include our technology competency, OEM customer relationships and our intellectual property portfolio.
Our Advertising Cloud offerings face competition from other advertising platforms and networks, including Google, Facebook and The Trade Desk.
PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Digital Media Offerings Creative Cloud Adobe Creative Cloud is a cloud-based subscription offering that enables creative professionals and enthusiasts alike to express themselves with apps and services for video, design, photography and the web that connect across devices, platforms and geographies.
Members have access to a vibrant creative community, publishing services to deliver apps and websites, cloud storage to easily sync and access their work, files and assets across apps, platforms and devices using Creative Cloud Libraries, collaboration capabilities with team members, and new products and exclusive updates as they are developed.
Creative Cloud members can build a Creative Profile which persists wherever they are.
A user’s Creative Profile moves with them via Creative Cloud services from app to app and device to device, giving them immediate access to their personal files, photos, brushes, graphics, colors, fonts, text styles, desktop setting customizations and other important assets.
All of the applications listed below and many more are available through subscriptions to Creative Cloud.
It is used by photographers, designers, animators, web professionals and video professionals, and is available to Adobe Creative Cloud subscribers on both desktop and iPad.
Lightroom, our cloud-based photo service for editing, organizing, storing and sharing photos, is also available to 11 Table of Contents Creative Cloud subscribers on desktop, tablet and mobile devices.
Customers can also subscribe to Photoshop or Lightroom as individual cloud-enabled subscription products, or through our Photography Plan, which is a cloud-enabled offering targeted at photographers and photo hobbyists and includes Photoshop, Lightroom, integrated cloud services, and Lightroom Classic, a desktop-only version of the photo service app.
Illustrator is available on desktop and iPad to Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual subscription product.
Tight integration with Adobe Creative Cloud enables customers to start their projects on tablet devices and move seamlessly to desktop or mobile, with all files, brushes, fonts and assets synced across devices through Adobe Creative Cloud.
A free version of Adobe Fresco is available and a premium version is offered as part of Adobe Creative Cloud, as part of an Adobe Photoshop subscription plan, or as a standalone subscription for individuals, teams, education or enterprises.
Our customers use it to create, preflight and publish a broad range of content including newspapers and magazines for print, online and tablet app delivery.
Customers can also access Adobe digital publishing capabilities from within InDesign to create and publish engaging apps for a broad range of devices, including iOS, Android and Amazon-based devices.
InDesign is available to Adobe Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use InDesign as an individual cloud- enabled subscription product.
Adobe XD also enables users to share and reuse assets with design systems that can scale as teams and organizations grow.
Adobe XD is available to Adobe Creative Cloud subscribers, and individuals and teams can also subscribe to use it as an individual cloud-enabled subscription product.
Premiere Rush is uniquely positioned toward social media marketers, video bloggers and video enthusiasts who are looking for an all-in-one app to create and directly share online videos.
Premiere Pro and Premiere Rush tightly integrate with other Adobe creative applications and are available to Adobe Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use Premiere Pro and Premiere Rush as individual cloud-enabled subscription products, or they can download the free Premiere Rush starter plan.
It offers superior control, a wealth of creative options and integration with other post-production applications.
After Effects is available to Adobe Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual cloud-enabled subscription product.
Dimension is available to Adobe Creative Cloud subscribers, and customers can also subscribe to use it as an individual cloud-enabled subscription product.
Customers can also subscribe to use Substance as an individual subscription product.
Adobe Stock is built into Adobe Creative 13 Table of Contents Cloud apps, including Photoshop , Illustrator and InDesign, enabling users to search, browse and add images to their Creative Cloud Libraries, and obtain instant access to assets across desktop and mobile devices.
Adobe Stock assets may be licensed directly within the Creative Cloud desktop apps, through stock.adobe.com or as a multi-asset subscription.
Our full library of commercially-licensed fonts is offered through Adobe Creative Cloud.
Adobe Portfolio allows users to quickly and simply build a fully- customizable and hosted website that seamlessly syncs with Behance.
Adobe Spark with premium features allows users to apply custom branding to their creations.
The premium product is offered as part of any Adobe Creative Cloud plan or as a standalone subscription for individuals, teams, education or enterprises.
Acrobat and Adobe Document Cloud Adobe Document Cloud is a cloud-based subscription offering that enables complete, reliable and automated digital document and signature workflows across desktop, mobile, web and third-party enterprise applications to drive business productivity for individuals, teams, small businesses and enterprises.
Document Cloud includes Adobe Acrobat DC, Adobe Sign, Adobe Scan and other Document Cloud apps and services that work standalone or integrate with users’ existing productivity apps, processes and systems.
Adobe Acrobat is available to both Adobe Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud subscribers.
Customers can also license Acrobat Pro DC or Acrobat Standard DC (which has a subset of Acrobat Pro DC features) as individual point products available through a cloud-enabled subscription.
Digital Experience Offerings Adobe Experience Cloud is a comprehensive collection of best-in-class solutions for analytics, marketing and commerce, all integrated on a cloud platform, along with service, support and an open ecosystem.
Experience Cloud is comprised of the following sets of solutions for our customers: Customer Data and Insights, Content and Commerce, and Customer Journey Management, which are each described below.
The following is a brief description of our solutions for Customer Data and Insights.
Adobe Experience Platform standardizes data into an easily sharable format consumable by Adobe Sensei and provides an open and extensible cloud infrastructure which allows that data to flow freely within the Adobe Experience Platform and between Adobe applications and services and third-party software.
Users are able to leverage Adobe Experience Platform to activate AI-driven insights across all Adobe Experience Cloud applications.
Adobe Analytics enables web, social, video, mobile, attribution and predictive analytics to continuously improve the performance of marketing activities and better direct our customers’ marketing spend.
From attribution and predictive modeling to contribution analysis and propensity scoring, Adobe Analytics is immersed in machine learning and AI.
Adobe Audience Manager provides access to multiple data sources, offering digital publishers the ability to use a wide variety of third-party data as well as Audience Manager’s private data co-op.
It does so by activating Adobe Experience Platform’s unified customer profiles across channels to leverage intelligent decision making throughout the customer journey and deliver hyper-personalized experiences across all known channels and devices.
Intelligent Services Our Intelligent Services, built on Adobe Experience Platform, give marketers responsible for customer experience access to AI-as-a-service, allowing anyone to predict customer behavior, measure the impact of a campaign, or understand which marketing activities produce the best returns.
Content and Commerce Our Content and Commerce solutions help customers manage, deliver, test, target and optimize content delivery and enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses.
The following is a brief description of our solutions for Content and Commerce.
It enables customers to manage content on premises or in the cloud with our cloud-native enterprise-grade content management system, delivering agile and rapid deployment.
With this ultimate control of content and campaigns, our customers can deliver real-time and personalized experiences to their consumers that help build customers’ brands, drive demand and extend reach.
Adobe Experience Manager includes digital asset management, content management and enterprise-level forms management.
Based on an open-source ecosystem with thousands of third-party extensions, Adobe Commerce extends beyond the web shopping cart to shoppable experiences, including email, mobile, in-store and marketplaces.
Adobe Commerce also integrates with Adobe Experience Manager to enable the user-friendly creation and deployment of content and promotions for shopping experiences that integrate seamlessly across mobile, social or in-store.
Adobe Campaign enables marketers to manage the customer journey and use rich customer data to create, coordinate and deliver dynamic, personalized experiences that are synchronized across multiple channels, including email, mobile and offline, and determined by each consumer’s behaviors and preferences.
Marketers can also integrate consumer data from across marketing channels to develop and deliver more relevant marketing experiences to their consumers through email, mobile, offline channels and more.
It offers a feature-rich and cloud-native platform with a set of solutions for delivering transformative customer experiences across industries and companies of all sizes.
Other Products and Services We also offer a broad range of other enterprise and digital media products and services.
Information about other products not referenced here can be found on our corporate website, www.adobe.com.
We also market and distribute our products through sales channels, which include distributors, retailers, software developers, SIs, ISVs and VARs, as well as through OEM and hardware bundle customers.
We sell the majority of our products through a software subscription model where our customers purchase access to a product for a specific period of time during which they always have rights to use the most recent version of that product.
We also license perpetual versions of our software with maintenance and support, which includes rights to upgrades, when and if available, support, updates and enhancements.
With a focus on ensuring sustained customer success and realized value, this comprehensive portfolio of services is designed to help customers 17 Table of Contents and partners maximize the return on their investments in our cloud solutions and licensed products.
Our service and support revenue consists primarily of consulting fees, software maintenance, technical support fees and training fees.
Consulting Services We have a global professional services team dedicated to designing and implementing solutions for our largest customers.
Our customers continually seek to integrate across Adobe’s products and cloud solutions, and engage our professional services teams to share their expertise in leading customers’ digital strategies, multi-solution integrations and in running customer platforms.
Using our methodology, our professional services teams are able to accelerate customers’ time to value, and maximize the return customers earn on their investment in Adobe solutions.
A key component of Adobe’s strategy is developing a large partner ecosystem to expand the reach and breadth of Adobe solutions in the global marketplace.
In order to assist partners in building their respective digital practices, Adobe Global Services provides a comprehensive set of deliverables through Adobe’s Solution Partner Program.
We believe that through these programmatic services and support, our joint customers benefit greatly from the combination of Adobe technology and the deep customer context that our global partners represent.
Customer Success Account Management Adobe Customer Solutions provides Customer Success Managers, who work with enterprise and commercial customers on an ongoing basis to understand their current and future business needs, promote faster solution adoption, and align product capabilities to customers’ business objectives to maximize the return on their investment in Adobe’s offerings.
We engage customers to share innovative best practices, relevant industry and vertical knowledge, and proven success strategies based on our extensive engagements with leading marketers and brands.
Technical Support Adobe provides enterprise maintenance and support services to customers of subscription products as part of the subscription entitlement, and to perpetual license customers via annual fee-based maintenance and support programs.
These offerings provide: • technical support on the products they have purchased from Adobe; • “how to” help in using our products; and • product upgrades and enhancements during the term of the maintenance and support or subscription period, which is typically one to three years.
We provide product support through a global support organization that includes several regional and global support centers, supplemented with outsourced vendors for specific services.
For enterprise customers with greater support needs, we offer personalized service options through Premium Services options, delivered by global support centers and technical account managers who can also provide proactive risk mitigation services and on-site support services for those with business-critical deployments.
Lastly, we also offer delivery assurance, technical support and enablement services to partners and developer organizations.
Through the Adobe Partner Connection Reseller Program, we provide developers with high-quality tools, software development kits, information and services.
Digital Learning Services Adobe Customer Solutions offers a comprehensive portfolio of learning and enablement services to assist our customer and partner teams in the use of our products, including those within Digital Experience, Digital Media and other legacy products and solutions.
Our training portfolio includes a large number of free online self-service learning options on 18 Table of Contents www.training.adobe.com.
Adobe Digital Learning Services also has an extensive portfolio of fee-based learning programs including a wide range of traditional classroom, virtual and on-demand training and certifications delivered by our team of training professionals and partners across the globe.
These core offerings are complemented by our custom learning services, which support our largest enterprise customers and their unique requirements.
Finally, aligned with our cloud strategy, we have introduced a new learning subscription service that enables customers to access both business and technical Digital Experience training over a 12-month period, which is a scalable approach to supporting long-term learning.
We enter into these investments with the intent of securing financial returns as well as for strategic purposes, as they often increase our knowledge of emerging markets and technologies and expand our opportunities to provide Adobe products and services.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT A continuous high level of investment is required for the enhancement of existing solutions and the development of new solutions due to the speed of technological change that characterizes the software industry.
We develop our software internally, as well as acquire products or technology developed by others by purchasing the stock or assets of the business entity that owns the technology.
In other instances, we have licensed or purchased the intellectual property ownership rights of programs developed by others with license or technology transfer agreements that may obligate us to pay a flat license fee or royalties, typically based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the revenue generated by those programs.
Our enterprise customers license our hosted offerings as SaaS or Managed Services, and consumers primarily use our desktop software and mobile apps.
We license our desktop software to users under ‘click through’ or signed license agreements containing restrictions on duplication, disclosure and transfer.
Similarly, cloud products and services are provided to users under ‘click through’ or signed agreements containing restrictions on access and use.
We believe that our transition from perpetual-use software licenses to a subscription-based business model combined with the increased focus on cloud-based computing has and may continue to improve our efforts to combat the pirating of our products.
In order to create products that solve challenging problems for people all over the world, Adobe needs employees who can bring diverse perspectives and life experiences.
21 Table of Contents Name Age Positions Scott Belsky 40 Chief Product Officer and Executive Vice President, Creative Cloud Mr. Belsky joined Adobe in December 2017 as Chief Product Officer and Executive Vice President, Creative Cloud.
Prior to Benchmark, Belsky led Adobe's mobile strategy for Creative Cloud from December 2012 to January 2016, having joined the company through the acquisition of Behance.
Anil Chakravarthy 53 Executive Vice President and General Manager, Digital Experience Business and Worldwide Field Operations Mr. Chakravarthy joined Adobe in January 2020 as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Digital Experience and was given responsibility over Worldwide Field Operations in July 2020, when he was appointed Executive Vice President and General Manager, Digital Experience Business and Worldwide Field Operations.
Prior to joining Adobe, Ms. Lewnes spent 20 years at Intel Corporation, where she was Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
He joined Adobe in July 2015 as Senior Vice President of Adobe's Cloud Technology & Services organization and Chief Technology Officer and in February 2020, he was appointed Chief Technology Officer and Executive Vice President, Strategy and Growth.
He joined Adobe in April 2012 and served as our Vice President, Intellectual Property and Litigation where he spearheaded strategic initiatives including the company’s litigation efforts, and its patent, trademark and copyright portfolio strategies until June 2018.
Prior to joining Adobe in December 2018, Mr. Garfield served as the Vice President of Finance of Cloudflare, Inc. commencing in November 2017.
Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have materially affected how we and our customers are operating our businesses, and the duration and extent to which this will impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance remains uncertain.
Moreover, the conditions caused by the pandemic have affected the rate of IT spending and may continue to adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our offerings.
We have seen and may continue to see these conditions delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, adversely impact our ability to provide on-site consulting services to our customers, result in extended payment terms, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts, or affect attrition rates, all of which could adversely affect our future sales, operating results and overall financial performance.
The markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, new industry standards, evolving distribution models, limited barriers to entry, disruptive technology developments, short product life cycles, customer price sensitivity, global market conditions and frequent product introductions (including alternatives with limited functionality available at lower costs or free of charge).
Any of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect our renewal and upsell and cross-sell rates, as well as our ability to attract new customers.
Our future success will depend on our continued ability to enhance and integrate our existing products and services, introduce new products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, meet changing customer expectations and needs, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other 24 Table of Contents technological developments.
Furthermore, some of our competitors and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages such as greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, broader brand awareness and access to larger customer bases.
As a result of these advantages, potential and current customers might select the products and services of our competitors, causing a loss of our market share.
If we cannot continue to develop, acquire, market and offer new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, our operating results could suffer.
If we fail to anticipate customers’ rapidly changing needs and expectations or adapt to emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer.
We must make long-term investments, develop, acquire or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services.
Additionally, any delay in the development, acquisition, marketing or launch of a new offering or enhancement to an existing offering could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position.
If we cannot continue adapting our products to tablet and mobile devices, or if our competitors can adapt their products more quickly than us, our business could be harmed.
Our future success depends on a variety of factors, including our continued ability to innovate, introduce new products and services efficiently, enhance and integrate our products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological developments.
Integration of our products and services with one another and other companies’ offerings creates an increasingly complex ecosystem that is partly reliant on third parties.
Our ability to acquire other businesses or technologies, make strategic investments or integrate acquired businesses effectively may also be impaired by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, government actions in light of the pandemic, trade tensions and increased global scrutiny of foreign investments.
The success of some of our product and service offerings depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain customers of and contributors to our online marketplaces for creative content.
The success of some of our product and service offerings, such as Adobe Stock, depends on our ability to continue to attract new customers and contributors to these online marketplaces for creative content, as well as our ability to continue to retain existing customers and contributors.
An increase in paying customers has generally resulted in more content from contributors, which increases the size of our collection and in turn attracts new paying customers.
We rely on the functionality and features of our online marketplaces, the size and content of our collection and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts to attract new customers and contributors and retain existing ones.
New technologies may render the features of our online marketplaces obsolete, our collection may fail to grow as anticipated or our marketing efforts may be unsuccessful, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations.
Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Adobe increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our customers.
Social and ethical issues relating to the use of AI in our offerings may result in reputational harm and liability.
As with many innovations, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business.
We process and store significant amounts of employee and customer data, a large volume of which is hosted by third- party service providers.
Additionally, failure by Adobe or our customers to remove the accounts of their own employees, or the granting of accounts in an uncontrolled manner, may allow for access by former or unauthorized individuals.
We rely on data centers managed both by Adobe and third parties to host and deliver our services, as well as access, collect, process, use, transmit and store data, and any interruptions or delays in these hosted services, or failures in data collection or transmission could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation.
Much of our business relies on hardware and services that are hosted, managed and controlled directly by Adobe or third-party service providers, including our online store at adobe.com, Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience Cloud solutions.
If our business relationship with a third-party provider of hosting or content delivery services is negatively affected, or if one of our content delivery suppliers were to terminate its agreement with us, without adequate notice, we might not be able to deliver the corresponding hosted offerings to our customers, which could subject us to reputational harm, costly and time-intensive notification requirements, and cause us to lose customers and future business.
If a transition among data centers or to third-party service providers encounters unexpected interruptions, unforeseen complexity, or unplanned disruptions despite precautions undertaken during the process, this may impair our delivery of products and services to customers and result in increased costs and liabilities, which may harm our operating results and our business.
If we fail to plan infrastructure capacity appropriately and expand it proportionally with the needs of our customer base, and we experience a rapid and significant demand on the capacity of our data centers or those of third parties, service outages could occur, and our customers could suffer impaired performance of our services.
Security vulnerabilities in our products and systems, or in our supply chain, could lead to reduced revenue or to liability claims.
Security threats to our information systems, end points and networks have the potential to impact our customers as well.
The costs to prevent, eliminate, mitigate, or alleviate cyber- or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities are significant, and our efforts to address these problems, including notifying affected parties, may not be successful or may be delayed and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers.
These risks will likely increase as we expand our hosted offerings, integrate our products and services and store and process more data, including personal information.
Sales cycles for some of our enterprise offerings, including our Adobe Experience Cloud and Adobe Experience Platform solutions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (“ETLAs”) in our Digital Media business, are multi-phased and complex.
We spend substantial time and expense on our sales efforts without assurance that potential customers will ultimately purchase our solutions.
29 Table of Contents If our customers fail to renew subscriptions in accordance with our expectations, our future revenue and operating results could suffer.
Our Adobe Experience Cloud, Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings typically involve subscription-based offerings pursuant to product and service agreements.
Revenue from our subscription customers is generally recognized ratably over the term of their agreements, which typically range from 1 to 36 months.
Our varied customer base combined with the flexibility we offer in the length of our subscription-based agreements complicates our ability to precisely forecast renewal rates.
Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services, our ability to continue enhancing features and functionality, the reliability (including uptime) of our subscription offerings, the prices of offerings and those offered by our competitors, the actual or perceived information security of our systems and services, decreases in the size of our customer base, reductions in our customers’ spending levels or declines in customer activity as a result of economic downturns or uncertainty in financial markets, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline.
As our offerings expand and our customer base grows, our relationships with strategic partners become increasingly valuable.
Alternative arrangements for such products and services may not be available to us, or on commercially reasonable terms, and we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner.
We increasingly utilize the distribution platforms of third parties like Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store for the distribution of certain of our product offerings.
Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers, and may offer or promote products that compete with our product offerings.
If we encounter problems with our third-party customer service and technical support providers, our reputation may be harmed, our ability to sell our offerings could be adversely affected, and we could lose customers and associated revenue.
We may be unable to scale our infrastructure effectively or as quickly as our competitors in these markets, and our revenue may not increase to offset these expected increases in costs and operating expenses, causing our results to suffer.
31 Table of Contents Failure to manage our sales, partner and distribution channels effectively could result in a loss of revenue and harm to our business.
We contract with a number of software distributors and other strategic partners, none of which are individually responsible for a material amount of our total net revenue for any recent period.
Our distributors and other channel partners are independent businesses that we do not control.
We cannot be certain that our distribution channel will continue to market or sell our products and services effectively.
If our partner and distribution channels are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenue.
We also distribute some products and services through our OEM channel, and if our OEMs decide not to bundle our applications on their devices, our results could suffer.
In addition, the financial health of our distributors and partners and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success.
We also sell some of our products and services through our direct sales force.
Our business could be seriously harmed if our expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue and we are unable to achieve the efficiencies we anticipate.
We are a highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and website for our development, marketing, operations, support, hosted services and sales activities.
In addition, some of our businesses rely on third-party hosted services, and we do not control the operation of third-party data center facilities serving our customers from around the world, which increases our vulnerability.
Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and security issues and expanding laws could impact our business models and expose us to increased liability.
As a global company, Adobe is subject to global data privacy and security laws, regulations and codes of conduct that apply to our various business units.
Our intellectual property portfolio is a valuable asset.
Infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights could result in lost revenues and ultimately reduce their value.
We actively combat software piracy as we enforce our intellectual property rights, but we nonetheless lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software.
If piracy activities continue at historical levels or increase, they may further harm our business.
Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention of management and key personnel.
In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products, in some cases to fulfill contractual obligations with our customers.
Risks associated with licensing and selling products and services to government entities include more extended sales and collection cycles, varying governmental budgeting processes and adherence to complex procurement regulations and other government-specific contractual requirements.
As a result, current or potential customers may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services.
If economic growth in countries where we do business slows, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases, advertising spending or marketing spending, and we have already experienced and may continue to experience the impact of a global decline in advertising spend as the pandemic continues to unfold.
This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, more extended sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition.
Subscription offerings could create risks related to the timing of revenue recognition.
We generally recognize revenue from subscription offerings ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which typically range from 1 to 36 months.
As a result, most of the subscription revenue we report in each quarter is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters.
Declines in new or renewed subscriptions may decrease our revenue in future quarters.
Our subscription model could also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue from subscription-based or hosted services through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription term.
Additionally, in connection with our sales efforts to enterprise customers and our use of ETLAs, a number of factors could affect our revenue, including longer-than-expected sales and implementation cycles, potential deferral of revenue and alternative licensing arrangements.
If any of our assumptions about revenue from our subscription-based offerings prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated.
Intellectual property disputes and litigation may be very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel.
Third- party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from licensing certain of our products or offering certain of our services, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products or services, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements and service agreements.
In connection with our piracy conversion efforts, conducted both internally and through organizations such as the Business Software Alliance, from time to time we undertake litigation against alleged copyright infringers.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), using the modified retrospective method of transition.
During fiscal 2019, we acquired the remaining interest in Allegorithmic SAS (“Allegorithmic”), a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, for approximately $106 million in cash consideration, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment.
During fiscal 2018, we completed our acquisitions of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion and Magento, a privately held commerce platform company, for approximately $1.64 billion, and integrated them into our Digital Experience reportable segment.
Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers may include multiple goods and services.
For example, some of our offerings include both on-premise and/or on-device software licenses and cloud services.
Determining whether the software licenses and the cloud services are distinct from each other, and therefore performance obligations to be accounted for separately, or not distinct from each other, and therefore part of a single performance obligation, may require significant judgment.
We have concluded that the on-premise/on-device software licenses and cloud services provided in our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offerings are not distinct from each other such that revenue from each offering should be recognized ratably over the subscription period for which the cloud services are provided.
In reaching this conclusion, we considered the nature of our promise to Creative Cloud and Document Cloud customers, which is to provide a complete end-to-end creative design or document workflow solution that operates seamlessly across multiple devices and teams.
We fulfill this promise by providing access to a solution that integrates cloud-based and on-premise/on-device features that, together through their integration, provide functionalities, utility and workflow efficiencies that could not be obtained from either the on-premise/on-device software or cloud services on their own.
Cloud-based features that are integral to our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings and that work together with the on-premise/on-device software include, but are not limited to: Creative Cloud Libraries, which enable customers to access their work, settings, preferences and other assets seamlessly across desktop and mobile devices and collaborate across teams in 42 Table of Contents real time; shared reviews which enable simultaneous editing and commenting of PDFs across desktop, mobile and web; automatic cloud rendering of a design which enables it to be worked on in multiple mediums; and Sensei, Adobe’s cloud-hosted artificial intelligence and machine learning framework, which enables features such as automated photo-editing, photograph content-awareness, natural language processing, optical character recognition and automated document tagging.
Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date.
Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to: • future expected cash flows from software license sales, subscriptions, support agreements, consulting contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; • historical and expected customer attrition rates and anticipated growth in revenue from acquired customers; • the acquired company’s trade name and trademarks as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and trademarks will continue to be used in the combined company’s product portfolio; • the expected use of the acquired assets; and • discount rates.
In connection with the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the deferred revenue obligations assumed.
During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain intellectual property rights (“IP rights”) which resulted in the establishment of deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits of $224 million and $1.13 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred in April and November 2020, respectively.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of 2020 For our fiscal 2020, we experienced strong demand across our Digital Media offerings consistent with the continued execution of our long-term plans with respect to this segment.
In our Digital Experience segment, we continued to experience growth in software-based subscription revenue across our portfolio of offerings.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we began to discontinue our transaction-driven Advertising Cloud offerings, allowing us to focus our investment on strategic growth initiatives.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our new Publishing and Advertising segment, which combined Advertising Cloud with our previous Publishing segment.
This realignment is consistent with how we manage our Digital Experience segment to better reflect the strategic shift related to Advertising Cloud and to align with our overall core value proposition of delivering on customer experience management.
Digital Media In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering which provides desktop tools, mobile apps and cloud-based services for designing, creating and publishing rich and immersive content.
Creative Cloud delivers value with deep, cross-product integration, frequent product updates and feature enhancements, cloud-enabled services including storage and syncing of files across users’ machines, machine learning and artificial intelligence, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities, tools which assist with enterprise deployments and team collaboration, and affordable pricing for cost- sensitive customers.
We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, students, teams and enterprises.
We expect Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users as a result of low cost of entry and delivery of additional features and value to Creative Cloud, as well as keeping existing customers current on our latest release.
We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service.
Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow our recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably.
We continue to implement strategies that will accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offerings.
These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new desktop and mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud.
Because of the shift towards Creative Cloud subscriptions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (“ETLAs”), revenue from perpetual licensing of our Creative products has been immaterial to our business.
We are also a market leader with our Document Cloud offerings built around our Adobe Acrobat family of products, including Adobe Acrobat Reader DC, and a set of integrated mobile apps and cloud-based document services, including Adobe Scan and Adobe Sign.
Document Cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices, includes Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe Sign, and a set of integrated services enabling users to create, review, approve, sign and track documents whether on a desktop or mobile device.
Adobe Acrobat DC is offered both through subscription and perpetual licenses.
44 Table of Contents Annualized Recurring Revenue (“ARR”) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment.
We calculate ARR as follows: Annual Value of Creative Cloud Subscriptions and Services Creative ARR + Annual Creative ETLA Contract Value Annual Value of Document Cloud Subscriptions and Services Document Cloud ARR + Annual Document Cloud ETLA Contract Value Creative ARR Digital Media ARR + Document Cloud ARR Creative ARR exiting fiscal 2020 was $8.72 billion, up from $7.25 billion at the end of fiscal 2019.
Document Cloud ARR exiting fiscal 2020 was $1.46 billion, up from $1.08 billion at the end of fiscal 2019.
Total Digital Media ARR grew to $10.18 billion at the end of fiscal 2020, up from $8.33 billion at the end of fiscal 2019.
Creative revenue in fiscal 2020 was $7.74 billion, up from $6.48 billion in fiscal 2019 and representing 19% year-over-year growth.
Document Cloud revenue in fiscal 2020 was $1.50 billion, up from $1.22 billion in fiscal 2019 and representing 22% year-over-year revenue growth and reflecting an increase in demand driven by the shift to remote work as well as our continued efforts to transition Document Cloud to a subscription-based model.
Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $9.23 billion in fiscal 2020, up from $7.71 billion in fiscal 2019 and representing 20% year-over-year growth.
These increases were driven by strong net new user growth, including those resulting from the current work-from-home environment reflecting expanded digital engagement.
Digital Experience We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Experience segment.
The Adobe Experience Cloud applications, services and platform are designed to manage customer journeys, enable shoppable experiences and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry.
Our differentiation and competitive advantage is strengthened by our ability to use the Adobe Experience Platform to connect our comprehensive set of solutions.
Adobe Experience Cloud is focused on delivering solutions for our enterprise customers across the following strategic growth pillars: • Customer data and insights.
Our solutions deliver real-time customer profiles and intelligence across the customer journey.
Our offerings include Adobe Experience Platform, Adobe Analytics, Adobe Audience Manager, Customer Journey Analytics, Real-time Customer Data Platform and Intelligent Services.
Our solutions to help customers manage, deliver, test, target and optimize content delivery and enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses.
Our offerings include Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Target and Adobe Commerce.
Our solutions help businesses manage, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across B2E use cases.
Our offerings include Adobe Campaign, Marketo Engage and Journey Orchestration.
In addition to chief marketing officers, chief revenue officers and digital marketers, users of our Digital Experience solutions include advertisers, campaign managers, publishers, data analysts, content managers, social marketers, marketing executives and information management and technology executives.
These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings.
By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business 45 Table of Contents with the science of our Digital Experience business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop.
We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Digital Experience solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, systems integrators and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers.
Digital Experience revenue for all fiscal years presented has been updated to reflect the Advertising Cloud segment move.
Digital Experience revenue was $3.13 billion in fiscal 2020, up from $2.80 billion in fiscal 2019 which represents 12% year-over-year growth.
Driving this increase was the increase in subscription revenue across our offerings which grew to $2.66 billion in fiscal 2020 from $2.28 billion in fiscal 2019, representing 17% year-over-year growth.
As a result, we have taken action to direct our teams to work from home, suspend travel and replace in-person events such as Adobe Summit and MAX, with digital events through July 2021.
This macro trend towards all things digital has increased the importance and relevance of our solutions and accelerated the tailwinds that benefit our business, which contributed to our continued growth year over year.
However, while our revenue and earnings are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model, the broader implications of the pandemic on our results of operations and overall financial performance remain uncertain.
Financial Performance Summary for Fiscal 2020 • Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $10.18 billion as of November 27, 2020 increased by $1.85 billion, or 22%, from $8.33 billion as of November 29, 2019.
The increase in our Digital Media ARR was primarily due to new user adoption of our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings.
• Creative revenue of $7.74 billion increased by $1.25 billion, or 19%, during fiscal 2020, from $6.48 billion in fiscal 2019.
Document Cloud revenue of $1.50 billion increased by $272 million, or 22%, during fiscal 2020, from $1.22 billion in fiscal 2019.
The increases were primarily due to subscription revenue growth associated with our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings.
• Digital Experience revenue of $3.13 billion increased by $330 million, or 12%, during fiscal 2020, from $2.80 billion in fiscal 2019.
The increase was primarily due to subscription revenue growth across our offerings.
• Remaining performance obligation of $11.34 billion as of November 27, 2020 increased by $1.52 billion, or 15%, from $9.82 billion as of November 29, 2019, primarily due to new contracts and renewals for our Digital Media and Digital Experience offerings.
• Cost of revenue of $1.72 billion increased by $49 million, or 3%, during fiscal 2020, from $1.67 billion in fiscal 2019 primarily due to increases in hosting services and data center costs, offset in large part by decreases in Advertising Cloud media costs.
• Operating expenses of $6.91 billion increased by $679 million, or 11%, during fiscal 2020, from $6.23 billion in fiscal 2019 primarily due to increases in base and incentive compensation and related benefits costs, as well as increased marketing spend.
• Net income of $5.26 billion increased by $2.31 billion, or 78%, during fiscal 2020 from $2.95 billion in fiscal 2019 primarily due to increases in revenue and the non-recurring benefit from income taxes resulting from intra-entity transfers of certain intellectual property rights.
Presentation Changes In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our new Publishing and Advertising segment, which combined our Advertising Cloud offerings with our previous Publishing segment.
This realignment is consistent with how we manage our Digital Experience segment to better reflect the strategic shift related to Advertising Cloud and to align with our overall core value proposition of delivering on customer experience management.
Further, we reclassified revenue and related cost of revenue of our Advertising Cloud offerings from subscription to services and other on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which was adopted under the modified retrospective method at the beginning of fiscal 2019.
% Change % Change (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020-2019 2019-2018 Subscription $ 11,626 $ 9,634 $ 7,604 21 % 27 % Percentage of total revenue 90 % 86 % 84 % Product 507 648 622 (22) % 4 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 6 % 7 % Services and other 735 889 804 (17) % 11 % Percentage of total revenue 6 % 8 % 9 % Total revenue $ 12,868 $ 11,171 $ 9,030 15 % 24 % Subscription Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings, and related support, including Creative Cloud and certain of our Adobe Experience Cloud and Document Cloud services.
We primarily recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning with commencement of service.
Subscription revenue related to certain offerings, where fees are based on a number of transactions and invoicing is aligned to the pattern of performance, customer benefit and consumption, are recognized on a usage basis.
We have the following reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising.
Subscription revenue by reportable segment for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: % Change % Change (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020-2019 2019-2018 Digital Media $ 8,813 $ 7,208 $ 5,858 22 % 23 % Digital Experience 2,660 2,280 1,600 17 % 43 % Publishing and Advertising 153 146 146 5 % * Total subscription revenue $ 11,626 $ 9,634 $ 7,604 21 % 27 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%.
Product Our product revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to licenses for on-premise software purchased on a perpetual basis, for a fixed period of time or based on usage for certain of our OEM and royalty agreements.
We primarily recognize 47 Table of Contents product revenue at the point in time the software is available to the customer, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met.
Services and Other Our services and other revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to consulting, training, maintenance and support and our advertising offerings.
We typically sell our consulting contracts on a time-and-materials and fixed-fee basis.
These revenues are recognized as the services are performed for time and materials contracts and on a relative performance basis for fixed-fee contracts.
Transaction-based advertising revenue is recognized on a usage basis as we satisfy the performance obligations to our customers.
Segments In fiscal 2020, we categorized our products into the following reportable segments: • Digital Media—Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere.
Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers.
Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content.
• Digital Experience—Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analytics to commerce.
Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers, marketing executives, information management and technology executives, product development executives, and sales and support executives.
It also includes our platforms for Advertising Cloud, web conferencing, document and forms, and Primetime.
Segment Information % Change % Change (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020-2019 2019-2018 Digital Media $ 9,233 $ 7,707 $ 6,325 20 % 22 % Percentage of total revenue 72 % 69 % 70 % Digital Experience 3,125 2,795 2,073 12 % 35 % Percentage of total revenue 24 % 25 % 23 % Publishing and Advertising 510 669 632 (24) % 6 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 6 % 7 % Total revenue $ 12,868 $ 11,171 $ 9,030 15 % 24 % Digital Media Revenue from Digital Media increased $1.53 billion during fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019, driven by increases in revenue associated with our Creative and Document Cloud offerings due to increased demand and digital engagement amid the work-from-home environment.
Revenue associated with our Creative offerings, which includes our Creative Cloud, perpetually licensed Creative and stock photography offerings, increased during fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in net new subscriptions across our Creative Cloud offerings.
Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family and Adobe Sign service, increased during fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in subscription revenue driven by strong adoption of our Document Cloud offerings including Adobe Sign.
48 Table of Contents Digital Experience Revenue from Digital Experience increased $330 million during fiscal 2020, as compared to fiscal 2019 primarily due to subscription revenue growth across our offerings of which the largest contributors were our AEM and Marketo Engage offerings.
Geographical Information % Change % Change (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020-2019 2019-2018 Americas $ 7,454 $ 6,506 $ 5,117 15 % 27 % Percentage of total revenue 58 % 58 % 57 % EMEA 3,400 2,975 2,550 14 % 17 % Percentage of total revenue 26 % 27 % 28 % APAC 2,014 1,690 1,363 19 % 24 % Percentage of total revenue 16 % 15 % 15 % Total revenue $ 12,868 $ 11,171 $ 9,030 15 % 24 % Overall revenue during fiscal 2020 increased in all geographic regions as compared to fiscal 2019 primarily due to increases in Digital Media revenue and, to a lesser extent, increases in Digital Experience revenue.
49 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue % Change % Change (dollars in millions) 2020 2019 2018 2020-2019 2019-2018 Subscription $ 1,108 $ 926 $ 574 20 % 61 % Percentage of total revenue 9 % 8 % 6 % Product 36 40 46 (10) % (13) % Percentage of total revenue * * 1 % Services and other 578 707 575 (18) % 23 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 6 % 6 % Total cost of revenue $ 1,722 $ 1,673 $ 1,195 3 % 40 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1% Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party hosting services and data center costs, royalty fees and other expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of certain intangible assets and allocated overhead.
Cost of subscription revenue increased due to the following: Components of Components of % Change % Change 2020-2019 2019-2018 Hosting services and data center costs 10 % 16 % Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 5 5 Royalty costs 3 5 Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 3 5 Software licenses 2 2 Amortization of intangibles (2) 24 Various individually insignificant items (1) 4 Total change 20 % 61 % Product Cost of product revenue is primarily comprised of third-party royalties, amortization related to purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology, excess and obsolete inventory, localization costs and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products.
Services and Other Cost of services and other revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related and other associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support.
Cost of services and other also includes media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources for our transaction-based Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings, which we began to discontinue in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Research and development expenses increased due to the following: Components of % Change 2020-2019 Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 11 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 3 Travel (1) Total change 13 % We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced offerings and solutions.
We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools.
Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, amortization of contract acquisition costs, including sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel.
Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and events, public relations and other market development programs.
Sales and marketing expenses increased due to the following: Components of % Change 2020-2019 Marketing spend related to campaigns, events and overall marketing efforts 8 % Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 4 Transaction fees 2 Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 1 Professional and consulting fees (1) Travel (3) Total change 11 % 51 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel.
General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance.
As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits of $224 million and $1.13 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred in April and November 2020, respectively.
Other uses of cash include business acquisitions, purchases of property and equipment and payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards.
The increase in deferred revenue was primarily driven by Digital Media offerings with cloud-enabled services, and the decrease in trade receivables was largely attributable to strong collections.
The primary working capital use of cash was due to increases in prepaid expenses and other assets driven by sales commissions paid and capitalized and, to a lesser extent, increases due to the timing of billings and payments associated with certain vendors.
We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff, and facilities expansion.
Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world.
We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media.
We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices.
We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com.
We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model or a managed services model, both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based, as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models.
We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, independent software vendors, retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).
In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions.
Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions.
67 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Reclassifications In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our new Publishing and Advertising segment, which combined our Advertising Cloud offerings with our previous Publishing segment.
This realignment is consistent with how we manage our Digital Experience segment to better reflect the strategic shift related to Advertising Cloud and to align with our overall core value proposition of delivering on customer experience management.
Further, we reclassified revenue and related cost of revenue of our Advertising Cloud offerings from subscription to services and other on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
If the change was made at the beginning of fiscal 2020, reported revenue and cost of revenue in our income statements for each quarter of fiscal 2020 would have been as follows: 2020 Quarter Ended Year Ended (in millions) February 28 May 29 August 28 November 27 November 27 Revenue: Subscription $ 2,732 $ 2,831 $ 2,948 $ 3,115 $ 11,626 Product 143 128 109 127 507 Services and other 216 169 168 182 735 Total revenue 3,091 3,128 3,225 3,424 12,868 Cost of revenue: Subscription 274 269 282 283 1,108 Product 7 9 10 10 36 Services and other 171 137 135 135 578 Total cost of revenue $ 452 $ 415 $ 427 $ 428 $ 1,722 Certain other immaterial prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition Our revenue is derived from the sale of cloud-enabled software subscriptions, cloud-hosted offerings, term-based, royalty, and perpetual software licenses, associated software maintenance and support plans, consulting services, training and technical support.
Revenue is recognized when a contract exists between us and a customer and upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which may be capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations, or in the case of offerings such as cloud- enabled Creative Cloud and Document Cloud, accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Subscription, Product and Services Offerings We enter into revenue arrangements in which a customer may purchase a combination of cloud-enabled subscriptions, cloud-hosted offerings, term-based, royalty, and perpetual software licenses, associated software maintenance and support plans, consulting services, training and technical support.
68 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Fully hosted subscription services (SaaS) allow customers to access hosted software during the contractual term without taking possession of the software.
Cloud-hosted subscription services may be sold on a fee-per-subscription period basis or based on consumption or usage.
We recognize revenue ratably over the contractual service term for hosted services that are priced based on a committed number of transactions where the delivery and consumption of the benefit of the services occur evenly over time, beginning on the date the services associated with the committed transactions are first made available to the customer and continuing through the end of the contractual service term.
Fees based on a number of transactions, where invoicing is aligned to the pattern of performance, customer benefit and consumption, are typically accounted for utilizing the “as-invoiced” practical expedient.
Revenue for subscriptions sold as a fee per period is recognized ratably over the contractual term as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit of the underlying service.
When cloud-enabled services are highly integrated and interrelated with on-premise software, such as in our cloud- enabled Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings, the individual components are not considered distinct and revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription period for which the cloud-enabled services are provided.
The subscription support plans related to those customer arrangements whose revenues we classify as subscription revenues represent stand-ready performance obligations.
Revenue from these subscription support plans is recognized ratably over their respective contractual terms and classified as subscription revenue.
Licenses for on-premise software may be purchased on a perpetual basis, as a subscription for a fixed period of time or based on usage for certain of our OEM and royalty agreements.
Revenue from distinct on-premise licenses is recognized at the point in time the software is available to the customer, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met, and classified as product revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Some of our enterprise license arrangements allow customers to commit non-cancellable funds.
These non-cancellable committed funds are nonrefundable and provide our customers options to either renew monthly on-premise term-based licenses or use some or all funds to purchase other Adobe products or services.
Revenue associated with these monthly term-based licenses and associated maintenance and support is classified as subscription revenue.
Our services and other revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to consulting, training, maintenance and support and our advertising offerings.
We typically sell our consulting contracts on a time-and-materials and fixed-fee basis.
These revenues are recognized as the services are performed for time and materials contracts and on a relative performance basis for fixed-fee contracts.
Our transaction-based advertising offerings, where fees are based on a number of impressions per month and invoicing is aligned to the pattern of performance, customer benefit and consumption, are typically accounted for utilizing the “as-invoiced” practical expedient.
For example, some of our offerings include both on-premise and/or on-device software licenses and cloud services.
Determining whether the software licenses and the cloud services are distinct from each other, and therefore performance obligations to be accounted for separately, or not distinct from each other, and therefore part of a single performance obligation, may require significant judgment.
We have concluded that the on-premise/on-device software licenses and cloud services provided in our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offerings are not distinct from each other such that revenue from each offering should be recognized ratably over the subscription period for which the cloud services are provided.
In reaching this conclusion, we considered the nature of our promise to Creative Cloud and Document Cloud customers, which is to provide a complete end-to-end creative design or 69 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) document workflow solution that operates seamlessly across multiple devices and teams.
We fulfill this promise by providing access to a solution that integrates cloud-based and on-premise/on-device features that, together through their integration, provide functionalities, utility and workflow efficiencies that could not be obtained from either the on-premise/on-device software or cloud services on their own.
Cloud-based features that are integral to our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings and that work together with the on-premise/on-device software include, but are not limited to: Creative Cloud Libraries, which enable customers to access their work, settings, preferences and other assets seamlessly across desktop and mobile devices and collaborate across teams in real time; shared reviews which enable simultaneous editing and commenting of PDFs across desktop, mobile and web; automatic cloud rendering of a design which enables it to be worked on in multiple mediums; and Sensei, Adobe’s cloud-hosted artificial intelligence and machine learning framework, which enables features such as automated photo-editing, photograph content-awareness, natural language processing, optical character recognition and automated document tagging.
When revenue arrangements include components of third-party goods and services, for example in transactions which involve resale, fulfillment or providing advertising impressions to our end customer, we evaluate whether we are the principal, and report revenues on a gross basis, or an agent, and report revenues on a net basis.
We offer limited rights of return, rebates and price protection of our products under various policies and programs with our distributors, resellers and/or end-user customers.
We offer rebates to our distributors, resellers and/or end-user customers.
In such instances, we estimate and accrue license revenue.
We do not estimate variable consideration for our sales and usage-based license royalty agreements, consistent with the associated exception for sales and usage-based royalties for the license of intellectual property under the revenue recognition standard.
Our cash flow assumptions consider historical and forecasted revenue, operating costs and other relevant factors.
During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain intellectual property rights (“IP rights”) which resulted in the establishment of deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits of $224 million and $1.13 billion based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred in April and November 2020, respectively.
Advertising Expenses Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
73 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Credit risk in receivables is limited to OEMs, dealers and distributors of hardware and software products to the retail market, customers to whom we license software directly and our SaaS offerings.
If we license our software or provide SaaS services to a customer where we have a reason to believe the customer’s ability and intention to pay is not probable, the arrangement is not considered to be a revenue contract.
Following the move of our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into the Publishing segment, our business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising.
Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities as described in the “Business Overview” within Part I, Item 1, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions.
We categorize our products into the following reportable segments: • Digital Media—Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere.
Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers.
Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content.
• Digital Experience—Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analytics to commerce.
Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers, marketing executives, information management and technology executives, product development executives, and sales and support executives.
It also includes our platforms for Advertising Cloud, web conferencing, document and forms, and Primetime.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Other Assets and Deferred Costs - Contracts with Customers (Subtopic 340-40), which was adopted under the modified retrospective method at the beginning of fiscal 2019.
Subscription revenue by segment for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, updated for the reclassifications discussed above, were as follows: (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Digital Media $ 8,813 $ 7,208 $ 5,858 Digital Experience 2,660 2,280 1,600 Publishing and Advertising 153 146 146 Total $ 11,626 $ 9,634 $ 7,604 Contract Balances Trade Receivables A receivable is recorded when an unconditional right to invoice and receive payment exists, such that only the passage of time is required before payment of consideration is due.
Contract assets are typically related to subscription and hosted service contracts where the transaction price allocated to the satisfied performance obligations exceeds the value of billings to date.
77 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Deferred Revenue and Remaining Performance Obligations Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services, including non-cancellable and non-refundable committed funds and refundable customer deposits.
Deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when transfer of control to customers has occurred.
Customers are typically invoiced for these agreements in regular installments and revenue is recognized ratably over the contractual subscription period.
Deferred revenue does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year non-cancellable subscription agreements.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, such as invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, and not to receive financing from our customers.
Arrangements with some of our enterprise customers with non-cancellable and non- refundable committed funds provide options to either renew monthly on-premise term-based licenses or use some or all funds to purchase other Adobe products or services.
As of November 29, 2019, the balance of deferred revenue was $3.50 billion.
During the year ended November 27, 2020, approximately $3.22 billion of revenue was recognized that was included in the balance of deferred revenue as of November 29, 2019.
We applied practical expedients to exclude amounts related to performance obligations that are billed and recognized as they are delivered, optional purchases that do not represent material rights, sales- and usage-based royalties not yet consumed and any estimated amounts of variable consideration that are subject to constraint.
78 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Contract Acquisition Costs We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if we expect the benefit of those costs to be longer than one year.
During fiscal 2020 and 2019, we amortized $186 million and $171 million of capitalized contract acquisition costs into sales and marketing expense, respectively.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic’s net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
Marketo On October 31, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion of cash consideration.
Adding Marketo’s engagement platform to Adobe Experience Cloud furthers our long-term plan for strategic growth in the Digital Experience segment and enables us to offer a comprehensive set of solutions to enable customers across industries and companies automate and orchestrate their marketing activities.
The amounts of net revenue and net loss of Marketo included in our Consolidated Statements of Income from the acquisition date through November 30, 2018 were not material.
Purchase Price Allocation Under the purchase accounting method, the total final purchase price was allocated to Marketo’s net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
80 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to the acquired net tangible and intangible assets of Marketo based on their estimated fair values as of October 31, 2018 and the associated estimated useful lives at that date.
During fiscal 2019, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management’s estimates and assumptions in regards to total purchase price, intangible assets, deferred revenue, tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill.
Weighted Average (in millions) Amount Useful Life (years) Customer contracts and relationships $ 578 11 Purchased technology 444 7 Backlog 105 2 Non-competition agreements 12 2 Trademarks 329 9 Total identifiable intangible assets 1,468 Net liabilities assumed (194) N/A Goodwill (1) 3,459 N/A Total purchase price $ 4,733 _________________________________________ (1) Non-deductible for tax-purposes.
The estimated fair value of the customer contracts and relationships was determined based on projected cash flows attributable to the asset.
Purchased technology acquired primarily consists of Marketo’s cloud-based engagement marketing software platform.
Backlog relates to subscription contracts and professional services.
Goodwill — Approximately $3.46 billion of goodwill has been allocated entirely to our Digital Experience reportable segment.
Net liabilities assumed — Marketo’s tangible assets and liabilities as of October 31, 2018 were reviewed and adjusted to their fair value as necessary.
The net liabilities assumed included, among other items, $103 million in accrued expenses, $75 million in deferred revenue and $183 million in deferred tax liabilities, which were partially offset by $55 million in cash and cash equivalents and $72 million in trade receivables acquired.
Deferred revenue — Included in net liabilities assumed is Marketo’s deferred revenue which represents advance payments from customers related to subscription contracts and professional services.
The estimated costs to fulfill the obligation were based on the near-term projected cost structure for subscription and professional services.
Taxes — As part of our accounting for the Marketo acquisition, a portion of the overall purchase price was allocated to goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
Thus, approximately $349 million, included in the net liabilities assumed, was established as a deferred tax 81 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) liability for the future amortization of the intangible assets, and was partially offset by other tax assets of $166 million, which primarily consist of net operating loss carryforwards.
Unaudited Pro Forma Results The financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of operations of Adobe and Marketo, on a pro forma basis, as though the companies had been combined as of the beginning of the periods presented.
The following unaudited pro forma financial information for fiscal 2018 combines the historical results for Adobe for the year ended November 30, 2018 and the historical results of Marketo for the period January 1, 2018 through October 31, 2018: (in millions) 2018 Net revenues $ 9,339 Net income $ 2,362 Magento On June 18, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Magento Commerce (“Magento”), a privately held commerce platform company, and integrated it into our Digital Experience reportable segment.
The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to the acquired net assets of Magento based on their estimated fair values as of June 18, 2018 and the associated estimated useful lives at that date.
During fiscal 2019, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management’s estimates and assumptions in regards to net liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill.
Weighted Average (in millions) Amount Useful Life (years) Customer contracts and relationships $ 208 8 Purchased technology 84 5 In-process research and development (1) 39 N/A Trademarks 21 3 Other intangibles 44 3 Total identifiable intangible assets 396 Net liabilities assumed (68) N/A Goodwill (2) 1,317 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,645 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and are considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts.
Prior to this, we recorded the time value of purchased contracts in 87 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
The changes in fair value of these contracts is recorded to other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES Goodwill by reportable segment and activity for fiscal 2020 and 2019 was as follows: (in millions) 2018 Acquisitions Other(1) 2019 Reclassification(2) Other(1) 2020 Digital Media $ 2,740 $ 126 $ (1) $ 2,865 $ — $ 3 $ 2,868 Digital Experience 7,463 — (15) 7,448 (20) 48 7,476 Publishing and Advertising 378 — — 378 20 — 398 Goodwill $ 10,581 $ 126 $ (16) $ 10,691 $ — $ 51 $ 10,742 _________________________________________ (1) Amounts consist of foreign currency translation adjustments.
(2) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our new Publishing and Advertising segment, which combined Advertising Cloud with our previous Publishing segment.
90 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Other intangibles, net, as of November 27, 2020 and November 29, 2019 were as follows: (in millions) 2020 2019 Gross Gross Carrying Accumulated Carrying Accumulated Amount Amortization Net Amount Amortization Net Customer contracts and relationships $ 958 $ (289) $ 669 $ 1,219 $ (436) $ 783 Purchased technology 756 (347) 409 759 (223) 536 Trademarks 384 (122) 262 384 (73) 311 Other 84 (65) 19 227 (136) 91 Other intangibles, net $ 2,182 $ (823) $ 1,359 $ 2,589 $ (868) $ 1,721 In fiscal 2020, and 2019, certain intangibles associated with our acquisitions in prior years became fully amortized and were removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
ACCRUED EXPENSES Accrued expenses as of November 27, 2020 and November 29, 2019 consisted of the following: (in millions) 2020 2019 Accrued compensation and benefits $ 375 $ 318 Accrued bonuses 330 222 Refund liabilities 127 126 Accrued corporate marketing 134 80 Accrued media costs 55 118 Taxes payable 95 83 Accrued hosting fees 66 36 Royalties payable 34 62 Accrued interest expense 32 29 Fair value of derivatives 4 33 Accrued building rent — 99 Other 170 193 Accrued expenses $ 1,422 $ 1,399 Accrued media costs primarily relate to our transaction-driven Advertising Cloud offerings which we began to discontinue during the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits of $224 million and $1.13 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred in April and November 2020, respectively.
94 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) As of November 27, 2020, a valuation allowance of $276 million has been established for certain deferred tax assets related to certain state and foreign assets.
98 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Total stock-based compensation costs that have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Income for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows: (in millions) 2020 2019 2018 Cost of revenue $ 61 $ 55 $ 42 Research and development 467 375 277 Sales and marketing 261 249 206 General and administrative 120 109 85 Total (1) $ 909 $ 788 $ 610 _________________________________________ (1) During fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded tax benefits related to stock-based compensation costs of $352 million, $248 million and $222 million, respectively.
The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of November 27, 2020: (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2021 $ 872 2022 484 2023 528 2024 1 2025 — Thereafter — Total $ 1,885 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products.
Royalty expense, which was recorded under our cost of revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income, was approximately $176 million, $154 million and $119 million in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Intellectual property disputes and litigation may be very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel.
Third- party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from licensing certain of our products or offering certain of our services, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products or services, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements and service agreements.
In connection with our anti-piracy efforts, conducted both internally and through organizations such as the Business Software Alliance, from time to time we undertake litigation against alleged copyright infringers.
106 Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Stockholders and Board of Directors Adobe Inc.: Opinions on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Adobe Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of November 27, 2020 and November 29, 2019, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three fiscal year period ended November 27, 2020, and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements).
Performance obligations in cloud-enabled software subscriptions As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, cloud-enabled services are highly integrated and interrelated with on-premise or on-device software licenses in the Company’s Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offerings.
Because of this, the cloud-based services and the on-premise/on-device software licenses are not considered distinct from each other and the applicable subscription is accounted for as a single performance obligation.
We identified the assessment of performance obligations in these cloud-enabled software subscription offerings as a critical audit matter.
A high degree of subjective auditor judgment was required to assess the nature of the Company’s Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings, their intended benefit to customers as an integrated offering, and the level of integration that exists between the cloud-enabled services and the on-premise/on-device licenses.
We read the Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offering agreements to understand the contractual terms and conditions.
We participated in product demonstrations, examined marketing materials, and performed interviews with the Company’s product and engineering department to both understand and observe specific functionalities of the integrated offering and evaluate the nature of the promise made to the Company’s Creative Cloud and Document Cloud customers.
We evaluated the features and functionalities of the Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription that can be accessed only when using the on-premise/on-device software while connected to the Adobe Cloud to assess that customers receive the intended benefit from each solution only as an integrated offering.
As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded a deferred tax asset, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefit of $1.13 billion as of and for the period ended November 27, 2020 based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred.
We assessed the near-term revenue growth rate by comparing it to historical 108 Table of Contents results and comparing it to third-party analyst expectations for the industry.
One to Adobe Deferred Compensation 10-K 1/21/20 10.6B 000-15175 Plan* 10.7 Credit Agreement, dated as of October 17, 2018, among 8-K 10/19/18 10.1 000-15175 Adobe Inc. and certain subsidiaries as Borrowers, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank National Association, U.S Bank National Association, Société Générale S.A. as Co-Syndication Agents, Bank of America, N.A.