Summary Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Model, Strategy, and Performance • We face significant competition and we might not be successful at attracting and retaining users, including predicting, recommending, and playing content that our users enjoy.
• We face many risks associated with our growth and our international expansion, including attracting, retaining and motivating qualified personnel and obtaining rights to stream content on favorable terms.
• Our business emphasizes rapid innovation and prioritizes long-term user engagement over short-term results.
• We may not be able to effectively monetize our Service on mobile and other connected devices.
• Emerging industry trends in digital advertising may pose challenges for our ability to forecast or optimize our advertising inventory, which may adversely impact our Ad-Supported revenue.
• We may be subject to disputes or liabilities associated with our content, and our expansion into non-music content also subjects us to increased risks.
• The concentration of control of content by our major providers means they may unilaterally affect our access to music and other content.
• Difficulties in identifying the compositions in our sound recordings and the ownership thereof may impact our ability to perform our obligations under our licenses.
• Interruptions, delays, or discontinuations in service arising from our own systems or from third parties, such as Google Cloud Platform, could impair the delivery of our Service.
• Our business is subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations, including laws and regulations related to copyright, privacy and data security, which may increase the costs and/or difficulty of music licensing, pose the threat of lawsuits, regulatory fines and other liabilities.
• We are at risk of artificial manipulation of stream counts, and manipulation or exploitation of our software to gain or provide unauthorized access to certain features of our Service, and failure to effectively prevent and remediate such attempts could undermine investor confidence in the integrity of our key performance indicators.
Risks Related to Our Business Model, Strategy, and Performance If our efforts to attract prospective users and to retain existing users are not successful, our growth prospects and revenue will be adversely affected.
Our ability to grow our business and generate revenue depends on retaining, expanding, and effectively monetizing our total user base, including by increasing advertising revenue on our ad-supported service (“Ad-Supported Service”), increasing the number of subscribers to our premium service (“Premium Service”, and together with the Ad-Supported Service, the “Service”), and finding ways to monetize content across the Service.
We must convince prospective users of the benefits of our Service and our existing users of the continuing value of our Service.
Our ability to attract new users, retain existing users, and convert users of our Ad-Supported Service (“Ad-Supported Users”) to subscribers to our Premium Service (“Premium Subscribers”) depends in large part on our ability to continue to offer leading technologies and products, compelling content, superior functionality, and an engaging user experience.
Some of our competitors, including Apple, Amazon, and Google, have developed, and are continuing to develop, devices for which their audio streaming services are preloaded or may also be set as the default providers, which puts us at a significant competitive disadvantage.
As consumer tastes and preferences change on the internet and with mobile devices and other internet-connected products, we will need to enhance and improve our existing Service, introduce new services and features, and maintain our competitive position with additional technological advances and an adaptable platform.
If we fail to keep pace with technological advances or fail to offer compelling product offerings and state-of-the-art delivery platforms to meet consumer demands, our ability to grow or sustain the reach of our Service, attract and retain users, and increase our Premium Subscriber base may be adversely affected.
In addition, in order to increase our advertising revenue, we also seek to increase the listening time that our Ad-Supported Users spend on our Ad-Supported Service and find new opportunities to deliver advertising to users on the Service, such as through podcasts and other opportunities relating to content promotion to users.
The more content users stream on our Service, the more advertising inventory we generally have to sell.
Further, growth in our user base increases the size and scope of user pools targeted by advertisers, which improves our ability to deliver relevant advertising to those users in a manner that maximizes our advertising customers’ return on investment and that ultimately allows us to better demonstrate the effectiveness of our advertising solutions and justifies a pricing structure that is advantageous for us.
If we fail to grow our user base, the amount of content streamed, and the listening time that our users spend on our Ad-Supported Service or on podcasts, we may be unable to grow Ad-Supported revenue.
Moreover, given that Premium Subscribers are sourced primarily from the conversion of our Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers, any failure to grow our Ad-Supported User base or convert Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers may negatively impact our revenue.
In order to increase our Ad-Supported Users and our Premium Subscribers, we will need to address a number of challenges, including: • providing users with a consistently high-quality and user-friendly experience; • continuing to curate a catalog of content that consumers want to engage with on our Service; • continuing to innovate and keep pace with changes in technology and our competitors; and • maintaining and building our relationships with the makers of consumer products such as mobile devices.
We face and will continue to face significant competition for users, user listening time, and advertisers.
We compete for the time and attention of our users with other content providers on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of experience, relevance, diversity of content, ease of use, price, accessibility, perception of advertising load, brand awareness, reputation, and presence and visibility of our website and our Spotify application.
Our competitors include providers of streamed and on-demand music and podcasts as well as internet radio, terrestrial radio, and satellite radio.
8 Table of Contents Our current and future competitors may have higher brand recognition, more established relationships with content licensors and mobile device manufacturers, greater financial, technical, and other resources, more sophisticated technologies, and/or more experience in the markets in which we compete.
Our current and future competitors may also engage in mergers or acquisitions with each other, as SiriusXM and Pandora, or Amazon Music and Wondery, have done, to combine and leverage their audiences, content, and capabilities.
Our current and future competitors may innovate new features or introduce new ways of consuming or engaging with content that cause our users, especially the younger demographic, to switch to another product, which would negatively affect our user retention, growth, and engagement.
Some of our larger competitors, such as Apple and Amazon, have substantially broader product offerings and offer bundled or integrated products and services to leverage their relationships based on other products in their ecosystem to gain subscribers, which could discourage users from subscribing to our Service.
As the market for on-demand audio on the internet and mobile and connected devices increases, new competitors, business models, and solutions are likely to emerge.
We believe that companies with a combination of technical expertise, brand recognition, financial resources, and digital media experience pose a significant threat of developing competing on-demand audio distribution technologies.
We also compete for users based on our presence and visibility as compared with other businesses and platforms that deliver audio content through the internet and connected devices.
We face significant competition for users from companies promoting their own digital audio content online or through application stores, including several large, well-funded, and seasoned participants in the digital media market.
Device application stores often offer users the ability to browse applications by various criteria, such as the number of downloads in a given time period, the length of time since an application was released or updated, or the category in which the application is placed.
The websites and applications of our competitors may rank higher than our website and our Spotify application, and our application may be difficult to locate in device application stores, which could draw potential users away from our Service and toward those of our competitors.
In addition, some of our competitors, including Apple, Amazon, and Google, have developed, and are continuing to develop, devices for which their music and/or podcast streaming service is preloaded and/or able to be used out-of-the-box without the need to log in, creating a visibility and access advantage.
If we are unable to compete successfully for users against other digital media providers by maintaining and increasing our presence, ease of use, and visibility online, on devices, and in application stores, our number of Premium Subscribers, Ad-Supported Users, and the amount of content streamed on our Service may fail to increase or may decline and our subscription fees and advertising sales may suffer.
See “—If our efforts to attract prospective users and to retain existing users are not successful, our growth prospects and revenue will be adversely affected.” We compete for a share of advertisers’ overall marketing budgets with other content providers on a variety of factors, including perceived return on investment, effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products, pricing structure, and ability to deliver large volumes or precise types of advertisements to targeted user demographic pools.
We also compete for advertisers with a range of internet companies, including major internet portals, search engine companies, social media sites, and mobile applications, as well as traditional advertising channels such as terrestrial radio and television.
Large internet companies with strong brand recognition, such as Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Twitter, have significant numbers of sales personnel, substantial advertising inventory, proprietary advertising technology solutions, and traffic across web, mobile, and connected devices that provide a significant competitive advantage and have a significant impact on pricing for reaching these user bases.
We face many risks associated with our international expansion, including difficulties obtaining rights to stream content on favorable terms.
In addition to the above, continued expansion around the world exposes us to other risks such as: • lack of well-functioning copyright collective management organizations that are able to grant us music licenses, process reports, and distribute royalties in markets; 9 Table of Contents • fragmentation of rights ownership in various markets causing lack of transparency of rights coverage and overpayment or underpayment to record labels, music publishers, artists, performing rights organizations, and other copyright owners; • difficulties in obtaining license rights to local content; • increased risk of disputes with and/or lawsuits filed by rights holders in connection with our expansion into new markets (see “Item 8.A.
In order to attain and maintain profitability, we will need to recruit, integrate, and retain skilled and experienced personnel who can demonstrate our value proposition to users, advertisers, and business partners and who can increase the monetization of the music and podcasts streamed on our Service, particularly on mobile devices.
Continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our users, effectively monetize the music and podcasts streamed, develop and improve our operational and financial controls, and recruit, train, and retain highly skilled personnel.
We have experienced rapid growth rates in both the number of active users of our Service and revenue over the last few years.
As we grow larger and increase our user base and usage, we expect it will become increasingly difficult to maintain the rate of growth we currently experience.
Our business emphasizes rapid innovation and prioritizes long-term user engagement over short-term financial condition or results of operations.
Our business is growing and becoming more complex, and our success depends on our ability to quickly develop and launch new and innovative products.
Our culture also prioritizes our long-term user engagement over short-term financial condition or results of operations.
We frequently make decisions that may reduce our short-term revenue or profitability if we believe that the decisions benefit the aggregate user experience and will thereby improve our financial performance over the long term.
These decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with advertisers and partners, as well as our business, operating results, and financial condition could be seriously harmed.
If we fail to accurately predict, recommend, and play content that our users enjoy, we may fail to retain existing users and attract new users in sufficient numbers to meet investor expectations for growth or to operate our business profitably.
We believe that a key differentiating factor between Spotify and other audio content providers is our ability to predict music or podcasts that our users will enjoy.
In addition, our ability to offer users content that they have not previously heard and impart a sense of discovery depends on our ability to acquire and appropriately categorize additional content that will appeal to our users’ diverse and changing tastes.
While we have a large catalog of music and podcasts available to stream, we must continuously identify and analyze additional content that our users will enjoy and we may not effectively do so.
Our ability to predict and select content that our users enjoy is critical to the perceived value of our Service among users and failure to make accurate predictions could materially adversely affect our ability to adequately attract and retain users, increase content hours consumed, and sell advertising to meet investor expectations for growth or to operate the business profitably.
If we are unable to effectively monetize our Service on mobile and other connected devices, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
Our business model with respect to monetization of our Service on mobile and other connected devices is still evolving.
As users migrate away from personal computers, there is increasing pressure to monetize mobile and other connected devices, including cars and in-home devices.
We offer our Ad-Supported Service on mobile, from which we generate advertising revenue.
However, to date, we primarily rely on our Premium Service to generate revenue on mobile and other connected devices.
If we are unable to effectively monetize our Service on mobile and other connected devices, our business, operating results, and financial condition may suffer.
We have incurred significant costs to license content and continue to pay royalties to record labels, publishers, and other copyright owners for such content.
We expect that, in the future, our revenue growth rate may decline because of a variety of factors, including increased competition and the maturation of our business.
We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: • securing top quality audio and video content from leading record labels, distributors, and aggregators, as well as the publishing right to any underlying musical compositions; • creating new forms of original content; • our technology infrastructure, including website architecture, development tools, scalability, availability, performance, security, and disaster recovery measures; • research and development, including investments in our research and development team and the development of new features; • sales and marketing, including a significant expansion of our field sales organization; • international expansion in an effort to increase our member base, engagement, and sales; 11 Table of Contents • capital expenditures, including costs related to our facilities, that we will incur to grow our operations and remain competitive; and • general administration, including legal and accounting expenses.
We rely on advertising revenue to monetize our Service, and any failure to convince advertisers of the benefits of advertising on our Service in the future could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Failure to grow the Ad-Supported User base and to effectively demonstrate the value of our Ad-Supported Service and other similar offerings on the Service to advertisers could result in loss of, or reduced spending by, existing or potential future advertisers, which would materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
For example, we have experienced a decline in Ad-Supported revenue growth as a result of headwinds to our advertising business during the COVID-19 pandemic, which, given the market uncertainty, could continue and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.
For example, we need to show that our Service has substantial reach and engagement by relevant demographic audiences.
In addition, changes to operating systems' practices and policies, such as Apple's iOS updates that may impose new requirements in order to track users or otherwise access Apple's Identifiers for Advertisers (“IDFA”), may reduce the quantity and quality of the data and metrics that can be collected or used by us and our partners.
Measurement technologies for mobile devices may be even less reliable in quantifying the reach and usage of our Service, and it is not clear whether such technologies will integrate with our systems or uniformly and comprehensively reflect the reach, usage, or overall audience composition of our Service.
See “—Our user metrics and other estimates are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in those metrics may seriously harm and negatively affect our reputation and our business.” 12 Table of Contents Emerging industry trends in digital advertising may pose challenges for our ability to forecast or optimize our advertising inventory, which may adversely impact our Ad-Supported revenue.
Other advertisers will measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns based on our ability to serve their ads to audiences that match their demographic data benchmarks, and our ability to meet the requirements of these third party measurement providers may be impacted when we do not have accurate or complete user data.
As these trends in the industry continue to evolve, our advertising revenue may be adversely affected by the availability, accuracy, and utility of analytics and measurement technologies as well as our ability to successfully implement and operationalize such technologies and standards.
For example, we have introduced Streaming Ad Insertion ("SAI") technology to improve our targeting and measurement capabilities for podcast advertising that rely on our streaming capabilities instead of using downloads as a proxy.
However, the impact of the shift in measurement from downloads to real impressions on our advertising revenue is uncertain, as well as its acceptance by our advertising partners or our ability to scale this technology successfully.
Because the majority of our Ad-Supported User hours and podcast consumption occur on mobile devices, if we are unable to deploy effective solutions to monetize the mobile device usage by our Ad-Supported User base, our ability to attract advertising spend, and ultimately our advertising revenue, may be adversely affected by this shift.
Expansion of our operations to deliver non-music content, including podcasts, subjects us to increased business, legal, financial, reputational, and competitive risks.
Expansion of our operations to deliver non-music content involves numerous risks and challenges, including increased capital requirements, new competitors, and the need to develop new strategic relationships.
Growth in these areas may require additional changes to our existing business model and cost structure, modifications to our infrastructure, and exposure to new regulatory, legal and reputational risks, including infringement liability, any of which may require additional expertise that we currently do not have.
See “—We may be subject to disputes or liabilities associated with content made available on our Service.” There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from podcasts or other non-music content to offset the costs of creating or acquiring this content.
Failure to successfully monetize and generate revenues from such content, including failure to obtain or retain rights to podcasts or other non-music content on acceptable terms, or at all, or to effectively manage the numerous risks and challenges associated with such expansion, could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of such commitments, if our user growth and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted.
To the extent our user and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of such content commitments.
We provide various services and products that enable artists, podcasters, and other creators or users to make content available on our Service.
For example, creators or users can record and distribute podcasts using Anchor and can upload cover art and profile images.
We have recently acquired and invested in, and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in, other companies or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our Service, enhance our technical capabilities or content offerings, or otherwise offer growth opportunities.
For example, the majority of our long term investments relates to Tencent Music Entertainment (“TME”).
Limitations on travel, “stay at home” orders, social distancing requirements, and other governmental actions implemented in response to COVID-19 led to changes as to how our users consume music and podcasts, and, although we have seen some return to pre-COVID-19 levels in our users’ engagement with our Service, any failure to predict or address changes in our users’ engagement with our Service arising from the COVID-19 pandemic could adversely affect our business.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, podcasters and other creators or users may experience delays or interruptions in their ability to create and provide content on our platform, and a decrease in the amount or quality of content available on our Service could adversely affect user engagement and harm our business.
Risks Related to Securing the Rights to the Content We Stream We depend upon third-party licenses for most of the content we stream and an adverse change to, loss of, or claim that we do not hold any necessary licenses may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.
To secure the rights to stream content, we enter into license agreements to obtain licenses from rights holders, such as record labels, aggregators, artists, music publishers, performing rights organizations, collecting societies, podcasters, podcast networks, and other audio/video content creators, copyright owners or their agents, or obtain licenses via government-provided statutory or compulsory licenses, and pay royalties or other consideration to such parties or their agents around the world.
We cannot guarantee that our efforts to obtain all necessary licenses to stream content will be successful, nor that the licenses available to us now will continue to be available in the future at rates and on terms that are favorable or commercially reasonable or at all.
For example, if we fail to obtain licenses to stream sound recordings from major record labels; if the rates we pay for mechanical licenses that are set by the Copyright Royalty Board increase our royalty costs; if we are unable to obtain blanket licenses for public performance rights on reasonable terms; if our licenses with collecting societies and our direct licenses with publishers outside of the U.S. do not provide full coverage for all of the musical compositions we make available to our users; for podcasts and other non-music content, if rights holders or content providers do not comply with the terms and conditions of our license agreements as well as the Spotify Terms and Conditions of Use, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed.
See also “—Difficulties in obtaining accurate and comprehensive information necessary to identify the compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service and the ownership thereof may impact our ability to perform our obligations under our licenses, affect the size of our catalog, impact our ability to control content acquisition costs, and lead to potential copyright infringement claims.” Even when we are able to enter into license agreements with rights holders, we cannot guarantee that such agreements will continue to be renewed indefinitely.
Business Overview—Licensing Agreements.” We have no control over third-party providers of the content we stream.
The concentration of control of content by our major providers means that even one entity, or a small number of entities working together, may unilaterally affect our access to music and other content.
The music industry has a high level of concentration, which means that one or a small number of entities may, on their own, take actions that adversely affect our business.
For example, with respect to sound recordings, the music licensed to us under our agreements with Universal Music Group, Sony Music Entertainment, Warner Music Group, and Music and Entertainment Rights Licensing Independent Network (“Merlin”), makes up the majority of music consumed on our Service.
For the year ended December 31, 2020, this content accounted for approximately 78% of music streams.
Our business may be adversely affected if our access to music is limited or delayed because of deterioration in our relationships with one or more of these rights holders or if they choose not to license to us for any other reason.
As a result, our ability to continue to license rights to sound recordings is subject to convincing a broad range of stakeholders of the value and quality of our Service.
Under our license agreements and relevant statutes, we must pay all required royalties to record labels, music publishers, and other copyright owners in order to stream content.
The determination of the amount and timing of such payments is complex and subject to a number of variables, including the type of content streamed, the country in which it is streamed, the service tier such content is streamed on, the amount of revenue generated by the streaming of the content, the identity of the license holder to whom royalties are owed, the current size of our user base, our current ratio of Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers, the applicability of any most favored nations provisions, and any applicable advertising fees and discounts, among other variables.
See “—If we fail to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results could be adversely affected.” If we fail to implement and maintain effective controls relating to rights holder liabilities, we may underpay/under-accrue or overpay/over-accrue the royalty amounts payable to record labels, music publishers, and other copyright owners.
As of December 31, 2020, we have estimated future minimum guarantee commitments of €3.6 billion under license agreements for sound recordings and musical compositions (both for mechanical rights and public performance rights) as well as license agreements for podcasts.
Such minimum guarantees related to our content acquisition costs are not always tied to our revenue and/or user growth forecasts (e.g., number of users, active users, Premium Subscribers), or the number of sound recordings and musical compositions or podcasts used on our Service.
Accordingly, our ability to achieve and sustain profitability and operating leverage on our Service in part depends on our ability to increase our revenue through increased sales of Premium Service and advertising sales on terms that maintain an adequate gross margin.
The duration of our license agreements for sound recordings and musical compositions that contain minimum guarantees is frequently between one and four years, but our Premium Subscribers may cancel their subscriptions at any time.
We rely on estimates of the market share of streaming content owned by each content provider, as well as our own user growth and forecasted advertising revenue, to forecast whether such minimum guarantees could be recouped against our actual content acquisition costs incurred over the duration of the license agreement.
Difficulties in obtaining accurate and comprehensive information necessary to identify the compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service and the ownership thereof may impact our ability to perform our obligations under our licenses, affect the size of our catalog, impact our ability to control content acquisition costs, and lead to potential copyright infringement claims.
See “—We depend upon third-party licenses for most of the content we stream and an adverse change to, loss of, or claim that we do not hold any necessary licenses may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.” These challenges, and others concerning the licensing of musical compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service, may subject us to significant liability for copyright infringement, breach of contract, or other claims.
Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal or Arbitration Proceedings.” New copyright legislation enacted in the United States, and related regulations, may increase the costs and/or difficulty of music licensing.
This legislation could, when fully implemented, result in new operational 18 Table of Contents requirements and difficulties in obtaining necessary music licenses.
We must ensure that our license agreements for the right to stream sound recordings encompass this new federal right.
Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal or Arbitration Proceedings.” Our ability to provide our Service is dependent upon our ability to license intellectual property rights to audio content, including sound recordings, any musical compositions embodied therein, and podcasts, as well as visual and related content, such as music videos, clips, album cover art, artist images, and any other media assets that artists and/or labels can add or provide with their tracks.
See “—Difficulties in obtaining accurate and comprehensive information necessary to identify the compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service and the ownership thereof may impact our ability to perform our obligations under our licenses, affect the size of our catalog, impact our ability to control content acquisition costs, and lead to potential copyright infringement claims.” Moreover, while we may often be able to seek indemnities from our licensors with respect to infringement claims that may relate to the content they provide to us, such indemnities may not be sufficient to cover the associated liability if the licensor at issue does not have adequate financial resources.
In addition, music, internet, technology, and media companies are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of intellectual property rights.
We currently own the www.spotify.com internet domain name and various other related domain names.
Risks Related to Our Operations Streaming depends on effectively working with operating systems, online platforms, hardware, networks, regulations, and standards we do not control.
We rely on a variety of operating systems, online platforms, hardware, and networks to reach our users.
Online platforms also may unilaterally impose certain requirements that negatively affect our ability to convert users to the Premium Service, such as conditions that limit our freedom to communicate promotions and offers to our users.
For example, as part of an update to its iOS operating system, Apple has announced new requirements for app developers on a mobile device to track users or receive Apple's IDFA, which may create difficulties in monetizing our users or measuring the effectiveness of our user acquisition campaigns and challenge our ability to promote our products and services to iOS users.
Moreover, our Service requires high-bandwidth data capabilities.
If the costs of data usage increase or access to data networks is limited, our business may be seriously harmed.
Additionally, to deliver high-quality audio, video, and other content over networks, our Service must work well with a range of technologies, systems, networks, regulations, and standards that we do not control.
In addition, the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity, or use of the internet, including laws governing internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our Service and increase our cost of doing business.
If the FCC’s repeal of the open internet rules is maintained, state initiatives regulating providers are modified, overturned, or vacated, or the EU modifies these open internet rules, broadband service providers may be able to limit our users’ ability to access Spotify or 21 Table of Contents make Spotify a less attractive alternative to our competitors’ applications, and our business, operating results, and financial condition would be seriously harmed.
See “Risks Related to Securing the Rights to the Content We Stream—Our royalty payment scheme is complex, and it is difficult to estimate the amount payable under our license agreements.” We could also face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty.
We have experienced, and may in the future experience, periodic service interruptions and delays involving our own systems and those of third parties that we work with.
We have designed our software and computer systems to utilize data processing, storage capabilities, and other services provided by GCP, and currently rely on GCP for the vast majority of our primary data storage (including personal data of users and audio data licensed from rights holders) and computing.
As we collect and utilize personal data about our users as they interact with our Service, we are subject to new and existing laws and regulations that govern our use of user data.
New laws, amendments to, or reinterpretations of existing laws, rules of self-regulatory bodies, industry standards, and contractual obligations, as well as changes in our users’ expectations and demands regarding privacy and data security, may require that we expend considerable resources to meet these requirements and may limit our ability to collect, use, and disclose, and to leverage and derive economic value from user data.
Restrictions on our ability to collect, access and harness user data, or to use or disclose user data, may require us to expend significant resources to adapt to these changes, and would in turn limit our ability to stream personalized content to our users and offer advertising and promotional opportunities to users on the Service.
Maintaining, protecting, and enhancing the “Spotify” brand is critical to expanding our base of Ad-Supported Users, Premium Subscribers, and advertisers, and will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable, trustworthy, and innovative products and services, which we may not do successfully.
We may introduce new products, services, features, content, or terms of service that our users, advertisers, or partners do not like, which may negatively affect our brand.
Additionally, the actions of our developers, advertisers, and content partners may affect our brand if users do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with Spotify or that make use of Spotify content or brand features.
If we are unable to maintain the growth rate in the number of our Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers, we may be required to expend greater resources than we currently spend on advertising, marketing, and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brand, which would adversely affect our operating results and may not be effective.
An increase in those fees would require us to either increase the prices we charge for our Premium Service, which could cause us to lose Premium Subscribers and subscription revenue, or suffer an increase in our costs without a corresponding increase in the price we charge for our Premium Service, either of which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
In addition, if our billing software fails to work properly and, as a result, we do not automatically charge our Premium Subscribers’ credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
Certain payment card associations have proposed additional requirements for trial offers for automatic renewal subscription services, which may hinder our ability to attract or retain Premium Subscribers.
Qualified individuals are in high demand, particularly in the digital media industry, and we may incur significant costs to attract them.
Our financial performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of advertising spending.
Economic conditions may adversely impact levels of consumer spending, which could adversely impact the number of users who purchase our Premium Service on our website and mobile application.
To the extent that overall economic conditions reduce spending on discretionary activities, our ability to retain current and obtain new Premium Subscribers could be hindered, which could reduce our subscription revenue and negatively impact our business.
We regularly review key metrics related to the operation of our business, including, but not limited to, our monthly active users (“MAUs”), Ad-Supported MAUs, Premium average revenue per user (“ARPU”), and Premium Subscribers, to evaluate growth trends, measure our performance, and make strategic decisions.
While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our user base for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring how our Service is used across large populations globally.
For example, we believe that while there are individuals who have multiple Spotify accounts, which we treat as multiple users for purposes of calculating our active users, there are also Spotify accounts that are used by more than one person.
In addition, we are continually seeking to improve our estimates of our user base, and such estimates may change due to improvements or changes in our methodology, including improvements in our ability to identify and/or address previously undetected undesirable user behaviors.
We are at risk of artificial manipulation of stream counts and failure to effectively manage and remediate such fraudulent streams could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.
We have in the past been, and continue to be, impacted by attempts by third parties to artificially manipulate stream counts.
Such attempts may, for example, be designed to generate revenue for rights holders or to influence placement of content on Spotify-created playlists or industry music charts.
These potentially fraudulent streams may involve creating non-bona fide user accounts or artists or using compromised passwords to access legitimate user accounts.
For example, we have detected instances of botnet operators creating fake user accounts or hackers using passwords compromised as a result of a breach on a non-Spotify service to access legitimate user accounts and streaming specific content repeatedly, thereby generating royalties each time the content is streamed or increasing its visibility on our or third-party charts.
We use a combination of algorithms and manual review by employees to detect fraudulent streams and aim to remove fake user accounts created for the above purposes and filter them out from our metrics on an ongoing basis, as well as to require users to reset passwords that we suspect have been compromised.
However, we may not be successful in detecting, removing, and addressing all fraudulent streams and any related user accounts.
If we fail to successfully detect, remove, and address fraudulent streams and associated user accounts, it may result in the manipulation of our data, including the key performance indicators, which underlie, among other things, our contractual obligations with rights holders and advertisers (which could expose us to the risk of litigation), as well as harm our relationships with rights holders and advertisers.
For example, we have detected instances of third parties seeking to provide mobile device users a means to suppress advertisements without payment and gain access to features only available to the Ad-Supported Service on tablets and desktop computers.
Additionally, compared to our Ad-Supported Users, individuals using unauthorized versions of our application may be less likely to convert to Premium Subscribers.
On February 14, 2019, we acquired Anchor FM Inc. (“Anchor”), a software company that enables users to create and distribute their own podcasts, for a total purchase consideration of €136 million.
The acquisition allows us to leverage Anchor’s creator-focused platform to accelerate our path to becoming the world’s leading audio platform.
On February 15, 2019, we acquired Gimlet Media Inc. (“Gimlet”), an independent producer of podcast content, for a total purchase consideration of €172 million.
The acquisition allows us to leverage Gimlet’s in-depth knowledge of original content production and podcast monetization.
The acquisition allows us to expand our content offering, audience reach, and podcast monetization.
On December 8, 2020, we acquired Megaphone LLC (“Megaphone”), a podcast technology company, for a total purchase consideration of €195 million.
The acquisition allows us to expand and scale our podcast monetization and product offering for advertisers.
With a presence in 93 countries and territories and growing, our platform includes 345 million MAUs and 155 million Premium Subscribers as of December 31, 2020.
Our Premium Subscribers grew 24% year-over-year as of December 31, 2020 to 155 million.
The Premium Service and Ad-Supported Service live independently, but thrive together.
Our Ad-Supported Service serves as a funnel, driving a significant portion of our total gross added Premium Subscribers.
With a 25% increase in revenue from our Ad-Supported Service from 2018 to 2019 and a 10% increase in revenue from our Ad-Supported Service from 2019 to 2020, we believe our Ad-Supported Service is a strong and viable stand-alone product with considerable long-term opportunity for growth in Ad-Supported Users, revenue, and gross profit contribution.
However, we face intense competition in growing both our Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers, as well as in keeping our users highly engaged.
If user engagement declines or if we fail to continue to grow our Ad-Supported User base or Premium Subscriber base, our revenue growth will be negatively impacted.
Selected Financial Data.” 36 Table of Contents Music Industry Growth Continues to be Led by Streaming Following more than 10 years of decline as the industry transitioned from physical product sales to streaming access models, the global recorded music business hit its digital inflection point in 2015 and has grown ever since.
Global recorded music industry revenues grew 8% to $20.2 billion in 2019, following on growth of 10% in 2018, 8% in 2017, 9% in 2016, and 4% in 2015.
Industry-wide streaming revenues grew nearly 23% in 2019, accounting for over 56% of global recorded music industry revenues and more than offsetting the industry’s mid-single digit decline in physical sales.
As the largest global audio subscription streaming service, we are a key driver of global recorded music revenue growth.
Through December 31, 2020, we have paid more than €21 billion in royalties to certain record labels, music publishers, and other rights holders since our launch.
In 2020, our expenses for rights holders grew by 17% compared to the prior year, making us one of the largest engines for revenue growth to artists and labels in the music industry.
Spotify is the Most Popular Global Audio Streaming Subscription Service Spotify has transformed the way people access and enjoy music and podcasts.
Today, millions of people around the world have access to over 70 million tracks, including 2.2 million podcast titles, through Spotify whenever and wherever they want.
We are transforming the music industry by allowing users to move from a “transaction-based” experience of buying and owning music to an “access- based” model, which allows users to stream music on demand.
In contrast, traditional radio relies on a linear distribution model in which stations and channels are programmed to deliver a limited song selection with little freedom of choice.
We are actively investing in podcasts and other forms of alternative and spoken word content to complement the music library available through our platform.
Approximately 25% of our Monthly Active Users as of December 31, 2020 have consumed this kind of content.
To the extent such content is made exclusive to our platform through direct ownership or licensing arrangements, we believe these investments can help differentiate our service, attract incremental users, and enhance engagement.
If discovery drives delight, and delight drives engagement, and engagement drives discovery, we believe Spotify wins and so do our users.
Our brand reflects culture—and occasionally creates it—by turning vast and intriguing listening data into compelling stories that remind people of the role music and other audio content play in their lives and encourage new fans to join Spotify each week.
Our Business Model We offer both Premium and Ad-Supported Services.
Our Premium and Ad-Supported Services live independently, but thrive together.
Our Ad-Supported Service serves as a funnel, driving a significant portion of our total gross added Premium Subscribers.
With a 10% increase in revenue from our Ad-Supported Service from 2019 to 2020, we believe our Ad-Supported Service is a strong and viable stand-alone product with considerable long-term opportunity for growth in Ad-Supported Users and revenue.
However, we face intense competition in growing both our Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers, as well as in keeping our users highly engaged.
If user engagement declines or if we fail to continue to grow our Ad-Supported User base or Premium Subscriber base, our revenue growth will be negatively impacted.
Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business Model, Strategy, and Performance—If our efforts to attract prospective users and to retain existing users are not successful, our growth prospects and revenue will be adversely affected.” We continue to invest heavily in developing our two-sided marketplace with new and better product features and functionality for users and creators and believe our investments are leading to higher user engagement and enjoyment.
Despite the worldwide disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and shifted listening patterns, our Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers continued to spend significant time engaging with our Service.
Combined, our audience streamed 92 billion hours of content for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of 26% compared to the year ended December 31, 2019.
In addition to accessing our catalog on computers, tablets, and mobile devices, users can connect through speakers, receivers, televisions, cars, game consoles, and smart devices.
We generate revenue for our Premium segment through the sale of Premium Services.
Premium Services are sold directly to end users and through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from end customers.
We offer a variety of subscription pricing plans for our Premium Service, including our standard plan, Family Plan, Duo Plan, and Student Plan, among others, to appeal to users with different lifestyles and across various demographics and age groups.
Our pricing varies by plan and is adapted to each local market to align with consumer purchasing power, general cost levels, and willingness to pay for an audio service.
We also bundle the Premium Service with third-party services and products.
In addition, as we have entered into new markets where recurring subscription services are less common, we have expanded our subscription products to include prepaid options and durations other than monthly (both longer and shorter durations), as well as expanded both online and offline payment options.
Revenue for our Premium segment is a function of the number of Premium Subscribers who use our Premium Service.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had approximately 155 million and 124 million Premium Subscribers, respectively.
New Premium Subscribers primarily are sourced from the conversion of our Ad-Supported Users.
Through both our online platform and external marketing efforts, we engage our Ad-Supported Users by highlighting key features that encourage conversion to our subscription offerings.
Additionally, new subscriber growth also is driven by the success of converting users from our trial programs to full-time Premium Subscribers.
Ad-Supported Service Our Ad-Supported Service has no subscription fees and generally provides Ad-Supported Users with limited on-demand online access to our catalog of music and unlimited online access to our catalog of podcasts on their computers, tablets, and compatible mobile devices.
We generate revenue for our Ad- Supported segment from the sale of display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions across our music and podcast content.
Our advertising strategy centers on the belief that advertising products that are based in music and podcasts and are relevant to Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners can enhance user experiences and provide even greater returns for advertisers.
We have historically introduced, and continue to introduce, new advertising products across both music and podcast content.
38 Table of Contents Revenue for our Ad-Supported segment is affected primarily by, but not limited to, the number of our Ad-Supported Users, the total content hours per MAU of our Ad-Supported Users, and our ability to provide innovative advertising products that are relevant to our Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners and enhance returns for our advertising partners.
Below is a summary of certain provisions of our license agreements relating to sound recordings and the musical compositions embodied therein (i.e., the musical notes and the lyrics), as well as podcasts and other non-music content.
They also often include marketing commitments, advertising inventory, financial and data reporting obligations, and numerous prescriptions about the manner in which the Spotify service is operated.
Rights to sound recordings granted pursuant to these agreements accounted for over 78% of music streams for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Risk Factors—Risks Related to Securing the Rights to the Content We Stream—Minimum guarantees required under certain of our license agreements may limit our operating flexibility and may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.” We also have direct license agreements with independent labels, as well as companies known as “aggregators” (for example, Believe Digital, CDBaby, Distrokid, and TuneCore).
We also offer marketplace programs, some of which may result in a discounted recording royalty rate.
These agreements have music usage reporting obligations on Spotify and typically have one to four-year terms, and are limited to the territory of the United States and its territories and possessions.
Podcast License Agreements with Podcasters and Podcast Networks With respect to podcasts and other non-music content for which we obtain distribution rights directly from rights holders, we either negotiate licenses directly with individuals or entities or obtain rights through our owned and operated platforms, such as Anchor, Soundtrap for Storytellers, and Spotify for Podcasters, that enable creators to post content directly to our Service after agreeing to comply with the applicable terms and conditions.
Risk Factors—Risks Related to Securing the Rights to the Content We Stream—We depend upon third-party licenses for most of the content we stream and an adverse change to, loss of, or claim that we do not hold any necessary licenses may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.” Intellectual Property The success of our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, including the intellectual property rights underlying our Service.
Trend Information” for a description of the seasonality of our business.
Competition We compete for the time and attention of our users with various content providers on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of experience, relevance, diversity of content, ease of use, price, accessibility, perception of advertising load, brand awareness, reputation, and presence and visibility of our website and our Spotify application.
Our current competitors include Amazon Music, Apple Music, Apple Podcasts, Deezer, Joox, Pandora, SoundCloud, TikTok, YouTube Music, and others with competing services.
We compete with providers of on-demand music, which is purchased or available for free and playable on mobile or other connected devices.
These forms of media may be purchased, downloaded, and owned, such as iTunes audio files, MP3s, or CDs, or accessed from subscription or free online on-demand offerings by music providers or content streams from other online services.
We face increasing competition for users from a growing variety of businesses, including other free and/or subscription music services around the world, many of which offer services that seek to emulate our Service and/or have differentiated service offerings.
40 Table of Contents We also compete with providers of podcasts that offer an on-demand catalog of podcast content that is similar to ours.
We face increasing competition from a growing variety of podcast providers that seek to differentiate their service by content offering and product features.
Our competitors also include providers of internet radio, terrestrial radio, and satellite radio.
Internet radio providers may offer more extensive content libraries than we offer and some may have broader international coverage than our Service.
In addition, internet radio providers may leverage their existing infrastructure and content libraries, as well as their brand recognition and user base, to augment their services by offering competing on-demand music features to provide users with more comprehensive music service delivery choices.
Terrestrial radio providers often offer their content for free, are well-established and accessible to consumers, and offer media content that we currently do not offer.
In addition, many terrestrial radio stations have begun broadcasting digital signals, which provide high-quality audio transmission.
Satellite radio providers, such as SiriusXM and iHeartRadio, may offer extensive and exclusive news, comedy, sports and talk content, and national signal coverage.
We also compete for advertisers’ budgets with other content providers, including a range of internet companies.
Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.” and “—Various existing, new, and changing laws and regulations as well as self-regulation and public concern related to privacy and data security pose the threat of lawsuits, regulatory fines, other liability and reputational harm, require us to expend significant resources, and may harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.” Human Capital Resources 41 Table of Contents At Spotify, we know that when our employees grow, Spotify grows.
Talent Development We enable and empower our employees by offering a number of learning opportunities through a variety of platforms and delivery methods, including face- to-face sessions, virtual and online sessions, and podcasts.
During 2020, we focused on increasing diversity through our inclusive diverse recruiting strategy to ensure that we are attracting and retaining unique, innovative and passionate individuals to Spotify, which includes training for interviewers, metrics to measure improvement for our hiring teams, and the tracking of demographic data through our hiring process.
Sales and marketing 100 % Spain Spotify GmbH Sales and marketing 100 % Germany Spotify France SAS Sales and marketing 100 % France Spotify Netherlands B.V.
Sales and marketing 100 % Netherlands Spotify Canada Inc.
Sales and marketing 100 % Canada Spotify Australia Pty Ltd Sales and marketing 100 % Australia Spotify Brasil Serviços De Música LTDA Sales and marketing 100 % Brazil Spotify Japan K.K Sales and marketing 100 % Japan Spotify India LLP Sales and marketing 100 % India S Servicios de Música México, S.A. de C.V.
With a presence in 93 countries and territories and growing, our platform includes 345 million MAUs and 155 million Premium Subscribers as of December 31, 2020.
Our Premium Subscribers grew 24% year-over-year as of December 31, 2020 to 155 million.
The acquisition allows us to expand our content offering, audience reach, and podcast monetization.
On December 8, 2020, we acquired Megaphone, a podcast technology company, for a total purchase consideration of €195 million.
The acquisition allows us to expand and scale our podcast monetization and product offering for advertisers.
Podcast licensing During the second quarter of 2020, we entered into a multi-year exclusive licensing deal with The Joe Rogan Experience, which debuted on Spotify in September 2020 and became exclusive on the platform in December 2020.
We continue to enter into license agreements with producers, publishers, and creators to enhance our podcast content offerings.
How We Generate Revenue We operate and manage our business in two reportable segments—Premium and Ad-Supported.
In addition to accessing our catalog on computers, tablets, and mobile devices, users can connect through speakers, receivers, televisions, cars, game consoles, and smart watches.
We generate revenue for our Premium segment through the sale of the Premium Service.
The Premium Service is sold directly to end users and through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from the end user.
We offer a variety of subscription pricing plans for our Premium Service, including our standard plan, Family Plan, Duo Plan, and Student Plan, among others, to appeal to users with different lifestyles and across various demographics and age groups.
Our pricing varies by plan and is adapted to each local market to align with consumer purchasing power, general cost levels, and willingness to pay for an audio service.
We also bundle the Premium Service with third-party services and products.
In addition, as we have entered into new markets where recurring subscription services are less common, we have expanded our subscription products to include prepaid options and durations other than monthly (both longer and shorter durations), as well as expanded both online and offline payment options.
New Premium Subscribers are sourced primarily from the conversion of our Ad-Supported Users.
Through both our online platform and external marketing efforts, we engage our Ad-Supported Users by highlighting key features that encourage conversion to our subscription offerings.
Additionally, new Premium Subscriber growth is driven by the success of converting users from our trial campaigns to full-time Premium Subscribers.
The rate of net growth in Premium Subscribers also is affected by our ability to retain our existing Premium Subscribers and the mix of subscription pricing plans.
We have increased retention over time, as new features and functionality have led to increased user engagement and satisfaction.
We have found that Premium Subscribers who access our Service over multiple devices have higher engagement and lower churn, which increases their expected lifetime value to Spotify.
Ad-Supported Our Ad-Supported Service has no subscription fees and generally provides Ad-Supported Users with limited on-demand online access to our catalog of music and unlimited online access to our catalog of podcasts on their computers, tablets, and compatible mobile devices.
It serves as both a Premium Subscriber acquisition channel and a robust option for users who are unable or unwilling to pay a monthly subscription fee but still want to enjoy access to a wide variety of high-quality audio content.
We generate revenue for our Ad-Supported segment from the sale of display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions across our music and podcast content.
Revenue for our Ad-Supported segment is comprised primarily of the number and hours of engagement of our Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners and our ability to provide innovative advertising products that are relevant to those users and enhance returns for our advertising partners.
Our advertising strategy centers on the belief that advertising products that are based in music and podcasts and are relevant to Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners can enhance users’ experiences and provide even greater returns for advertisers.
Revenue from our Ad-Supported segment also will be impacted by the demographic profile of our Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners and our ability to enable advertisers to reach their target audience with relevant advertising in the geographic markets in which we operate.
A large percentage of our Ad- Supported Users are between 18 and 34 years old.
By offering advertisers increased “self-serve options,” we expect to improve the efficiency and scalability of our advertising platform.
Monetizing our Ad-Supported User base has historically been, and is expected to remain, more challenging in our two fastest growing regions, Latin America and the rest of the world, compared to Europe and North America.
Cost of revenue consists predominantly of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.
We incur royalty costs, which we pay to certain record labels, music publishers, and other rights holders, for the right to stream music to our users.
Generally, Premium Service royalties are based on the greater of a percentage of revenue and a per user amount.
Royalties for the Ad-Supported Service are typically a percentage of relevant revenue, although certain agreements are based on the greater of a percentage of relevant revenue and an amount for each time a sound recording and musical composition is streamed.
The targets can include such measures as the number of Premium Subscribers, the ratio of Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers, and/or the rates of Premium Subscriber churn.
Cost of revenue also includes credit card and payment processing fees for subscription revenue, customer service, certain employee compensation and benefits, cloud computing, streaming, facility, and equipment costs, as well as the amortization of podcast content assets.
Amortization of podcast content assets is recorded over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life or the license period (if relevant), and begins at the release of each episode.
While we believe our discounted trial programs help drive incremental revenue and gross margins as users convert to full-time Premium Subscribers, these discounted trial programs, which historically have typically begun in the middle of the second and fourth quarters of each year, have led to decreases in gross margins in the first and third calendar quarters as we absorb the promotional expenses of the discounted trial offers.
We invest heavily in research and development in order to drive user engagement and customer satisfaction on our platform, which we believe helps to drive organic growth in new MAUs, which in turn drives additional growth in, and better retention of, Premium Subscribers, as well as increased advertising opportunities to Ad-Supported Users.
Expenses primarily comprise costs incurred for development of products related to our platform and Service, as well as new advertising products and improvements to our mobile and desktop applications and streaming services.
Sales and marketing expenses primarily comprise employee compensation and benefits, public relations, branding, consulting expenses, customer acquisition costs, advertising, live events and trade shows, amortization of trade name intangible assets, the cost of working with music record labels, publishers, songwriters, and artists to promote the availability of new releases on our platform, and the costs of providing free trials of Premium Services.
We define MAUs as the total count of Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers that have consumed content for greater than zero milliseconds in the last thirty days from the period-end indicated.
MAUs benefited from our continued investment in driving the growth of our Service, both through geographic expansion and consumer marketing.
MAUs also benefited from continued investment in content and features on our platform, including featured playlists, artist marketing campaigns, podcasts, and original content, to drive increased user engagement and customer satisfaction.
Premium Subscribers We define Premium Subscribers as users that have completed registration with Spotify and have activated a payment method for Premium Service.
Our Family Plan consists of one primary subscriber and up to five additional sub-accounts, allowing up to six Premium Subscribers per Family Plan Subscription.
The table below sets forth our Premium Subscribers as of December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018.
As of December 31, Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018 (in millions, except percentages) Premium Subscribers 155 124 96 30 24 % 28 29 % Premium Subscribers were 155 million as of December 31, 2020.
The Family Plan was a meaningful contributor of total gross added Premium Subscribers, while our free trial offers and global campaigns also accounted for a significant portion of gross added Premium Subscribers.
In addition, there was an increase in the number of Premium Subscribers on our Duo Plan.
Ad-Supported MAUs We define Ad-Supported MAUs as the total count of Ad-Supported Users that have consumed content for greater than zero milliseconds in the last thirty days from the period-end indicated.
Ad-Supported MAUs benefited from our continued investment in driving the growth of our Ad-Supported Service, both through geographic expansion and consumer marketing.
Ad-Supported MAUs also benefited from continued investment in content and features on our platform, including featured playlists, artist marketing campaigns, podcasts, and original content, to drive increased Ad-Supported User engagement and customer satisfaction.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken a number of actions focused on protecting the health and safety of our employees, maintaining business continuity, and supporting the global music community, including extending the work-from-home arrangement for all employees that began in March 2020 until September 1, 2021, slowing the pace of hiring in 2020, and launching the Spotify COVID-19 Music Relief Project, through which we matched donations to organizations that offer financial relief to those in the music community most in need around the world for a total contribution of $10 million.
For example, although our Ad-Supported revenue returned to growth during the second half of 2020, we have continued to face headwinds to our advertising business.
48 Table of Contents Revenue Year ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018 (in € millions, except percentages) Premium 7,135 6,086 4,717 1,049 17 % 1,369 29 % Ad-Supported 745 678 542 67 10 % 136 25 % Total 7,880 6,764 5,259 1,116 16 % 1,505 29 % Premium revenue For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, Premium revenue comprised 91% of our total revenue.
The increase was attributable primarily to a 24% increase in Premium Subscribers.
Ad-Supported revenue For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, Ad-Supported revenue comprised 9% of our total revenue.
This increase was due primarily to an increase in revenue from podcasts of €27 million and our self-serve channel of €20 million.
Although there was reduced advertising demand in the first half of the year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Ad- Supported revenue recovered in the later half of the year.
Cost of revenue Year ended December 31, Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018 (in € millions, except percentages) Premium 5,126 4,443 3,451 683 15 % 992 29 % Ad-Supported 739 599 455 140 23 % 144 32 % Total 5,865 5,042 3,906 823 16 % 1,136 29 % Effective January 1, 2020, all podcast content costs are recorded in the Ad-Supported segment.
The increase in Premium cost of revenue was driven primarily by an increase in new Premium Subscribers resulting in higher royalty costs, payment transaction fees, and streaming delivery costs of €682 million, €19 million, and €22 million, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in discounted trial costs of €33 million as we had relatively more users on free trials compared to discounted trials year-over-year.
The increase in Ad-Supported cost of revenue was driven primarily by an increase in podcast costs of €63 million, growth in advertising revenue and streams resulting in higher royalty costs of €47 million, and delivery costs of €18 million.
The decrease in Ad-Supported gross margin was due primarily to royalties derived from per play rates in certain markets, where an increase in streams outpaced revenue growth, and an increase in podcast costs.
The increase was due primarily to an increase in the cost of providing free trials of €79 million as a result of an increase in the number of Premium Subscribers on free trials.
Premium Services are sold directly to end users and through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from the end user.
Premium Services sold directly to end users are typically paid monthly in advance.
We satisfy our performance obligation, and revenue from these services is recognized, on a straight-line basis over the subscription period.
We satisfy our performance obligation, and revenue from these services is recognized, on a straight-line basis over the subscription period.
We also bundle the Premium Service with third-party services and products.
For each performance obligation within the bundle, revenue is recognized either on a straight-line basis over the subscription period or at a point in time when control of the service or product is transferred to the customer.
Ad-Supported Revenue We generate revenue for our Ad-Supported segment primarily through display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions and podcast downloads.
Ad-Supported revenue is recognized upon delivery of impressions or downloads.
Content We incur royalty costs for the right to stream music to our users, paid to record labels, music publishers, and other rights holders.
Calculations are based on either Premium and Ad-Supported revenue earned or user/usage measures or a combination of these.
In particular, in certain jurisdictions rights holders have several years to claim royalties for works streamed each month.
Amortization of podcast content assets is recorded in cost of revenue over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life or the license period, and begins at the release of each episode.
The economic life and expected amortization profile of podcast content assets is estimated by management based on historical listening patterns and is evaluated on an ongoing basis.
Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” D. Trend Information Our results reflect the effects of our bi-annual trial programs, both discounted and free trials, in addition to seasonal trends in user behavior and, with respect to our Ad-Supported segment, advertising behavior.
Historically, Premium Subscriber growth accelerates when we run bi-annual trial programs in the summer and winter, which typically begin in the middle of the second and fourth quarters.
For our Ad-Supported segment, typically we experience higher advertising revenue in the fourth quarter of each calendar year due to greater advertising demand during the holiday season.
However, in the first quarter of each calendar year, we typically experience a seasonal decline in advertising revenue due to reduced advertiser demand.
(3) We are subject to various non-cancelable purchase obligations and service agreements with minimum spend commitments, the majority of which relate to a service agreement with Google for the use of Google Cloud Platform and certain podcast commitments.
Before joining Spotify, he spent the majority of his career in the investment community as a portfolio manager and equity research analyst, most recently serving as a Managing Director and Head of the Internet and Media Equity Research team at Barclays.
He oversees the product, design, data, and engineering teams at Spotify and is responsible for our product strategy.
Executive Compensation Philosophy and Objectives We operate in the highly competitive and dynamic digital media industry as the world’s most popular global audio streaming subscription service.
To succeed in this environment, we must continuously develop solutions that meet the needs of our rapidly growing user base in a rapidly changing environment, efficiently develop and refine new and existing products and services, and demonstrate a strong return on investment to our advertisers.
Business Overview” for a discussion of our sales and distribution channels.
80 Table of Contents The registrar and transfer agent for Spotify’s ordinary shares is Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
We announce material financial information to our investors using our Investors website (investors.spotify.com), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls, and webcasts.
We use these channels, as well as social media, to communicate with our users and the public about our company, our services, and other issues.
Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the channels listed on our Investors website.
We updated the Spotify Code of Conduct and Ethics in December 2020 to introduce, among other changes, guidelines for internal communications.
4.34 Terms and Conditions Governing Consultant Restricted Stock Units 2021/2026 in Spotify Technology S.A., dated April 1, 2021.
As explained in Note 2 in the consolidated financial statements, cost of revenue and rights holder liabilities consist predominantly of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.
In our opinion, Spotify Technology S.A. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on the COSO criteria.
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) is audio streaming.
The Group’s premium service (“Premium Service”) provides users with unlimited online and offline high-quality streaming access to its catalog of music and podcasts.
The Group’s ad-supported service (“Ad-Supported Service,” and together with the Premium Service, the “Service”) has no subscription fees and generally provides users with limited on-demand online access to the catalog of music and unlimited online access to the catalog of podcasts.
(d) Revenue recognition Premium revenue The Group generates subscription revenue from the sale of the Premium Service in which customers can listen on-demand and offline.
Premium Services are sold directly to end users and through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from their end customers.
The Group satisfies its performance obligation, and revenue from these services is recognized, on a straight-line basis over the subscription period.
Premium partner subscription revenue is based on a per-subscriber rate in a negotiated partner agreement.
Additionally, the Group bundles the Premium Service with third-party services and products.
For each performance obligation within the bundle, revenue is recognized either on a straight-line basis over the subscription period or at a point in time when control of the service or product is transferred to the customer.
Ad-Supported revenue The Group’s advertising revenue is primarily generated through display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions and podcast downloads.
(g) Cost of revenue Cost of revenue consists predominantly of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.
The Group incurs royalty costs paid to record labels, music publishers, and other rights holders for the right to stream music to the Group’s users.
The determination of the amount of the rights holders’ liability requires complex IT systems and a significant volume of data and is subject to a number of variables, including the revenue recognized, the type of content streamed and the country in which it is streamed, the product tier such content is streamed on, identification of the appropriate license holder, size of user base, ratio of Ad-Supported Users to Premium Subscribers, and any applicable advertising fees and discounts, among other variables.
Cost of revenue also includes credit card and payment processing fees for subscription revenue, customer service, certain employee compensation and benefits, cloud computing, streaming, facility, and equipment costs, as well as the amortization of podcast content assets over their useful economic life, which starts at the release of each episode.
(h) Research and development expenses Research and development expenses are primarily comprised of costs incurred for development of products related to the Group’s platform and service, as well as new advertising products and improvements to the Group’s mobile app, desktop, and streaming services.
(i) Sales and marketing expenses Sales and marketing expenses are primarily comprised of employee compensation and benefits, public relations, branding, consulting expenses, customer acquisition costs, advertising, live events and trade shows, amortization of trade name and podcast publisher relationship intangible assets, the cost of working with record labels and artists to promote the availability of new releases on the Group’s platform, and the costs of providing free trials of the Premium Service.
(r) Podcast content assets The Group incurs costs to acquire, license, produce or commission podcasts primarily for inclusion on the Service, with some titles distributed more broadly.
We recognize podcast content assets as current assets in the consolidated statement of financial position and related cash flows are presented as operating cash flows.
Amortization of podcast content assets is recorded in cost of revenue over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life or the license period (if relevant), and begins at the release of each episode.
The economic life and expected amortization profile of podcast content assets is estimated by management based on historical listening patterns and is evaluated on an ongoing basis.
The Group’s podcast content assets are generally expected to be consumed in less than three years, and typically, on an accelerated basis, as we expect more upfront listening in most cases.
Revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed.
The increase in deferred revenue in 2020 is primarily a result of an increase in the number of Premium Subscribers.
The acquisition allows the Group to expand its content offering, audience reach, and podcast monetization.
Megaphone LLC On December 8, 2020, the Group acquired 100% of Megaphone LLC (“Megaphone”), a podcast technology company that provides hosting and ad- insertion capabilities for publishers and targeted advertising sales for brand partners.
The acquisition allows the Group to expand and scale its podcast monetization and product offering for advertisers.
The acquisition allows the Group to leverage Anchor’s creator-focused platform to accelerate the Group’s path to becoming the world’s leading audio platform.
The acquisition allows the Group to leverage Gimlet’s in-depth knowledge of original content production and podcast monetization.
The Premium Service is a paid service in which customers can listen on- demand and offline.
Revenue for the Premium segment is generated through subscription fees.
Revenue for the Ad- Supported segment is primarily generated through the sale of advertising across the Group's music and podcast content.
Effective January 1, 2020, all podcast content costs are recorded in the Ad- Supported segment.
The remaining royalties that are not specifically associated to either of the segments are allocated based on user activity or the revenue recognized in each segment.
As of December 31, 2020, the Robertson v. Spotify, Bluewater v. Spotify, Gaudio v. Spotify, and A4V v. Spotify lawsuits have all been dismissed.
On November 5, 2018, Spotify Technology S.A. announced that it would commence a share repurchase program beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018.
F-50 Table of Contents Recurring fair value measurements Long term investment – Tencent Music Entertainment Group The Group’s approximate 8% investment in TME is carried at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Commitments The Group is subject to the following minimum guarantees relating to the content on its service, the majority of which relate to minimum royalty payments associated with its license agreements for the use of licensed content, as at December 31: 2020 2019 2018 (in € millions) Not later than one year 317 657 548 Later than one year but not more than 5 years 3,259 383 152 3,576 1,040 700 F-54 Table of Contents In addition to the minimum guarantees listed above, the Group is subject to various non-cancelable purchase obligations and service agreements with minimum spend commitments, including a service agreement with Google for the use of Google Cloud Platform and certain podcast commitments as at December 31: 2020 2019 2018 (in € millions) Not later than one year 279 56 22 Later than one year but not more than 5 years 619 144 271 898 200 293 Contingencies Various legal actions, proceedings, and claims are pending or may be instituted or asserted against the Group.
As a general matter, the music and other content made available on the Group’s service are licensed to the Group by various third parties.
Sales and marketing 100 % Spain Spotify GmbH Sales and marketing 100 % Germany Spotify France SAS Sales and marketing 100 % France Spotify Netherlands B.V.
Sales and marketing 100 % Netherlands Spotify Canada Inc.
Sales and marketing 100 % Canada Spotify Australia Pty Ltd Sales and marketing 100 % Australia Spotify Brasil Serviços De Música LTDA Sales and marketing 100 % Brazil Spotify Japan K.K Sales and marketing 100 % Japan Spotify India LLP Sales and marketing 100 % India S Servicios de Música México, S.A. de C.V.
The Company exists under the name of “SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A.”.
If after the end of the subscription period not all of the preferential subscription rights offered to the existing shareholder(s) have been subscribed by the latter, third parties may be allowed to participate in the share capital increase, except if the Board of Directors decides that the preferential subscription rights shall be offered to the existing shareholders who have already exercised their rights during the subscription period, in proportion to the portion their ordinary shares represent in the share capital; the modalities for the subscription are determined by the Board of Directors.
La Société adopte la dénomination « SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A. ».
APPENDIX 1 (a) TO TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING EMPLOYEE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 2021/2026 IN SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A., TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS 2021/2026 IN SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A. AND TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING EMPLOYEE RETENTION COMPENSATION PROGRAM 2021/2026 IN SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A.
Exhibit 4.14 TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING EMPLOYEE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 2021/2026 IN SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A. 1.
APPENDIX 1 (a) TO TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING EMPLOYEE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 2021/2026 IN SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A., TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS 2021/2026 IN SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A. AND TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING EMPLOYEE RETENTION COMPENSATION PROGRAM 2021/2026 IN SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A.
Exhibit 4.34 TERMS AND CONDITIONS GOVERNING CONSULTANT RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS 2021/2026 IN SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A. 1.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 20-F of Spotify Technology S.A.; 2.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 20-F of Spotify Technology S.A.; 2.