This is a testament to all the amazing contributions of the Spotify team who in these uncertain times remain focused on the needs of our creators, fans, and partners around the world.
Monthly active users beat the top end of our guidance.
And our service now reaches 320 million users and 144 million subscribers.
This affirms our belief that there is significant pent up demand for Spotify around the world -- even in places where our service has yet to launch.
Our team remains laser-focused on building the world’s largest audio network and while it’s still early days, it’s clear to us that our strategy is working.
​ We know that when we reach more listeners, we’re able to attract more creators to our platform.
So with more reach, comes more content and with more content, especially content unique to Spotify, there comes more opportunities to monetize.
So to fuel the flywheel, you will see us continue to invest in enhancing our user experience, furthering market expansion, and developing and acquiring unique content from both new and established creators.
Our number of new podcasts increased over 20% and music releases are up 13% over the prior quarter.
We saw a strong positive reaction when Michelle Obama's and Joe Rogan's podcasts launched during the quarter, and we're seeing great success with our Originals and Exclusives, which now account for 19% of all podcast listening on the platform.
Another benefit of the investments that we’ve made in our content and user experience is that Spotify listeners are enjoying greater value than ever before.
We believe this presents two distinct opportunities: 1) With about 60% of Spotify subscribers starting out in our free tier and our outperformance on MAUs in 2020, we are confident that we have a long runway to continue to grow our subscriber base in the months and years ahead.
2) And long term, if engagement and/or our listener value per hour is high, it gives us the ability to selectively increase our price.
While our primary focus remains user growth, based on our maturity in certain markets and the increasing value we provide to our subscribers -- including enhanced content -- we’ve seen engagement and more specifically value per hour grow substantially over the past few years.
I believe an increase in value per hour is the most reliable signal we have in determining when we are able to use price as a lever to grow our business.
And while it is still early, initial results indicate that in markets where we’ve tested increased ​ prices, our users believe that Spotify remains an exceptional value and they have shown a willingness to pay more for our service.
I continue to believe ​ in the long-term value of each and every listener on Spotify.
And there are still billions of listeners that we have yet to reach around the world.
Listeners who try Spotify tend to stay, and they often convert to a subscriber.
That is why our continued focus is on reaching more listeners, as ultimately, this will translate into long-term value for our investors.
As we gain momentum, I strongly believe that you’ll see us drive greater acquisition, retention, engagement, and monetization, which is good for Spotify, our users, and creators.
And there’s no doubt it’s also good for the entire audio ecosystem.
2 Q3 2020 Earnings Call October 29, 2020 For more on this quarter, listen to the Spotify, For The Record Spotify podcast, which will go live on our platform tomorrow morning.