I am also incredibly pleased to announce that, as of yesterday, we have surpassed 60.5 million paid subscribers globally – far exceeding our initial projections for the service.
When you look across our full portfolio of direct-to-consumer businesses – at Disney+, Hulu and ESPN+ – our combined global reach now exceeds an astounding 100 million paid subscriptions.
Going forward, this confidence – coupled with the trends we’re seeing in the multi-channel universe – will lead us to pursue even more innovative and bold initiatives as we continue to grow the business.
And there’s more great content coming to the service.
In the process, we’re discovering ways to better serve our consumers during this challenging period.
Mirroring the strategy we successfully pursued with Disney+, the offering will be rooted in content we own from the prolific and critically-acclaimed production engines and libraries of— ABC Studios, FOX Television, FX, Freeform, 20th Century Studios and Searchlight.
And in light of the success that we’ve achieved thus far with our global DTC business – and bolstered by our ability to deliver the exceptional brands, franchises and storytelling that consumers around the world have demonstrated a tremendous affinity for – we intend to take full advantage of that opportunity.
Higher TV/SVOD results were driven by content sales to Disney+, including library titles, Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, and Onward, partially offset by a decrease in sales to third parties in the pay window.
Total Media Networks affiliate revenue increased 2%.
This was driven by 7 points of growth from higher rates, offset by a four-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers, which benefitted by about 2 points due to the launch of the ACC Network.
These impairment charges reflect the underperformance of these assets due to COVID-19, as well as the impact of our accelerated push into direct-to-consumer streaming services in the midst of declines in our international MVPD subscriber base.
And we expect the Q4 operating results of our DTC businesses to improve by approximately $100 million relative to the prior year quarter, driven by lower losses at Hulu and ESPN+, partially offset by our continued investment in Disney+.
We're fortunate that we have the opportunity to bring it to our own direct-to-consumer platform so consumers can enjoy it.
That said, we find it very interesting to be able to take a new offering, our Premier Access offering, to consumers at that $29.99 price and learn from it and see what happens not only in terms of the uptake of the number of subscribers that we get on the platform, but the actual number of transactions on the Disney+ platform that we get on that PVOD offering.
And then just following along on direct-to-consumer.
I'm just wondering what your research tells you about that approach versus offering more content as part of the Disney+ subscription.
We haven't seen sort of this idea of subscription service with kind of a pay-per-view element on top of it, which is really interesting.
In terms of the general entertainment offering internationally, we want to mirror our successful Disney+ strategy by using our Disney+ technical platform, rooting it in content that we already own and distributing it under a successful international brand that we also already own – which is of course Star – and then bringing it to market in very close association to Disney.
And the first thing is that Hulu aggregates third-party content while this will not.
This will be rooted in our own content, from ABC Studios, Fox TV, FX, Freeform, Searchlight and 20th Century.
And Hulu also, I must say, has no brand awareness outside of the U.S. and nor does Hulu have any content that's been licensed to it internationally.
And one of the things about Disney+ that we found is that new content to bring – new content tends to bring in new subscribers, but catalog increases engagement and helps us retain subscribers.
And you're seeing what we're doing in the direct-to-consumer initiatives not only domestically with Disney+, internationally with Disney+, and now internationally with the general entertainment channel.
So anything you'd help us on ESPN and maybe those sports that are not in bubble, and risk to your affiliate fees longer – in the next 6 months or so.
But Bob, just the AVOD-SVOD strategy as you did with Hulu in the U.S?
So first is, Christine, the $5 billion charge that you took for international markets, I guess this is a question for Bob as well, but broadly, does this mean that you could potentially use this as a way to pull more channels and go direct-to-consumer in other markets?
Is there an alternative state of the world where ESPN could go direct-to-consumer?
And we have, as you've heard today, accelerated our push into DTC consumer streaming and – with the same time, you're seeing a decline in the subscriber - MVPD subscriber base outside of the U.S.
And we're taking a look at going more quickly, as you said, into direct-to-consumer.
And certainly, you asked if whether we've looked at a stronger direct-to-consumer proposition for ESPN.
As you think about the next stage of growth for Disney+, does it make more sense to kind of go after a bigger market of subscribers, which can be pretty expensive in terms of original content?
On Disney+, we absolutely are going after a bigger market of the number of subscribers as opposed to over-rotating to try to get to a profitability number much sooner than we thought.
As I mentioned, one of the biggest things in terms of subscriber acquisition is having new, hot tentpole content to bring to the service, and you get that by making investments in new content.
So we'll be investing in content first, and then trying to grow the service, both from a marketing standpoint and from an installed base standpoint.