Notably, some of our more mature regions exhibited accelerating user growth, our advertising business returned to growth, and new market launches in Russia and 12 surrounding markets unlocked significant pent-up demand, adding a helpful accelerant to our results.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 1 MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS (“MAUs”) Total MAUs grew 29% Y/Y to 320 million in the quarter and above the top end of our guidance range.
In parts of Latin America, we observed churn improvement and support from new product offerings.
Thanks to continued product updates and user flow improvements, we are seeing strong upward trends in new user retention within emerging markets.
Consumption trends by platform have returned to normal usage, including in-car listening hours which is now above the pre-COVID peak.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 2 Total MAUs by Region PREMIUM SUBSCRIBERS Our Premium Subscribers grew 27% Y/Y to 144 million in the quarter, reaching the top end of our guidance range.
We saw strong subscriber growth across all regions, with added benefit from our new market launches in Russia and surrounding territories.
Additionally, we saw strong performance from the global rollout of our Duo product, with the Duo subscriber growth exceeding our expectations.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 3 Subscribers by Region FINANCIAL METRICS Revenue Total revenue of €1,975 million grew 14% Y/Y in Q3 or 19% Y/Y on a constant currency basis (excluding the impact of FX movements).
The rebound was led by our Podcast and Ad Studio channels, which grew in the strong double digit range on a Y/Y basis.
A number of factors drove the positive Gross Margin variance, led by better than forecast non-music content costs and Other Cost of Revenues (e.g.
As a reminder, we now account for all content costs related to podcast investment in the Ad- Supported business.
Product and Platform As a company, our goal is to continually innovate, testing new features and conducting numerous experiments each quarter as a way to increase connections between creators and listeners while enhancing customer engagement, retention, and LTV.
We also added mixed media formats, such as the launch of the Daily Sports playlist, which combines sports commentary and personalities alongside personalized music recommendations.
Additionally, we revamped our podcast charts experience, which is live in 26 markets and gives users the opportunity to see what podcasts are trending.
We also have expanded the mixed media playlist Your Daily Drive to users in the UK and Ireland, bringing a personalized mix of news podcasts and music to users, updated daily.
Furthermore, we announced that podcast listeners can connect even more deeply with hosts through video podcasts allowing for a more meaningful user experience.
Content We continue to lean into our goal of becoming the world’s number one audio platform through compelling new music releases and exclusive creative non-music content.
As of Q3, we had 1.9 Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 5 million podcasts on the platform (up from more than 1.5 million podcasts in Q2).
Of note, 22% of our Total MAUs engaged with podcast content in Q3 (up from 21% of MAUs in Q2 2020).
Q3 was a standout quarter for our podcasting efforts, beginning with the July launch of The Michelle Obama Podcast, an Original & Exclusive (“O&E”) podcast that became the #1 show globally on our platform in July and August, making it our top summer podcast.
We look forward to the start of our exclusivity period for this podcast by the end of this year.
Internationally, we released 58 new O&E podcasts, bringing our O&E offerings to a total of 16 markets.
Despite the challenges stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, we saw a 13% increase in new music releases compared with Q2 on our platform.
This was led by Taylor Swift’s folklore album, which set a Spotify record for the most first day album streams by a female artist while making Taylor Swift the most streamed artist on Spotify on any day this year.
Two-Sided Marketplace We continue to work towards our goal of building a diversified digital services platform enabling creator teams to connect, create, and grow their audiences on our platform.
The number of artists and their teams utilizing our Spotify for Artists tools on a monthly basis has grown to more than 750,000 and we continue to add new features for the creator community.
This quarter, Spotify for Artists introduced Promo Cards, a new tool that allows creators to make shareable social media assets for songs, albums, podcasts, and artist profiles.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 6 Artists, managers, labels, and distributors can now manage artist profiles, view and analyze listening data, pitch to playlists, and promote their music all together in one service.
Additionally, in September we launched support for artist teams to promote their virtual events on their Spotify profile and our Concerts hub, spaces that previously only featured in-person events.
Our sponsored recommendations continue to gain traction, helping music marketers target listeners based on their streaming behavior to shift users into an active listening session of their content.
During Q3, we saw a 76% increase in unique customers relative to Q2, and we retained 74% of customers from Q2, which we believe is a good sign of customer satisfaction.
We continue to expand the targeting capabilities for these sponsored recommendations, allowing music marketers to segment their audience by listening behavior, data that is unique to Spotify.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 7 Q4 2020 Guidance: ● Total MAUs: 340-345 million ● Total Premium Subscribers: 150-154 million ● Total Revenue: €2.00-€2.20 billion ○ Assumes approximately 600 bps headwind to growth Y/Y due to movements in foreign exchange rates (prior guidance assumed 360 bps headwind) ● Gross Margin: 24.2-26.2% ● Operating Profit/Loss: €(112)-€(32) million EARNINGS QUESTION & ANSWER SESSION We will host a live question and answer session starting at 8 a.m.
Daniel Ek, our Founder and CEO, and Paul Vogel, our Chief Financial Officer, will be on hand to answer questions submitted through slido.com using the event code #SpotifyEarningsQ320.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: Direct Event Registration Portal: http://www.directeventreg.com/registration/event/8742167 We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.