Despite the global uncertainty of 2020, it was a remarkable year for Spotify.
Monthly Active Users reached 345 million, coming in at the very top of the range, and we now have 155 million subscribers, which surpassed all expectations.
For Spotify, more time at home resulted in more people discovering streaming and ​ turning to our platform, but it also created disruption in listening habits, consumption hours and the release of new music and podcasts.
We believe it caused us to pull forward subscribers across the back half of 2020, which makes it hard to predict if we’ll drive the same subscriber ​ growth in the year ahead.
However, the trendlines are healthy and long term the shift from linear ​ ​ to on-demand that COVID accelerated will continue and remains a massive multi-billion user opportunity.
For example, while we have seen some pull forward effects that may slow down subscriber growth in some markets, we are shifting to drive more aggressive revenue growth where we know our pricing power will enable us to increase ARPU.
We’ve long believed that Spotify provides exceptional value, and the positive early data we’re seeing from the price increases we announced in October makes us very optimistic that our users agree.
We launched in South Korea on Tuesday morning, tapping into one of the fastest-growing music markets in the world.
There are still millions of creators and billions of listeners who don’t yet ​ 1 have access to Spotify.
The impact from expansion into new markets also creates some uncertainty as we forecast user ​ growth.
The result of this outperformance is that we saw some additional pull forward of user demand, again leading to growth in 2020 that we expected to occur in 2021.
Another area of the business where we are seeing extremely strong results, but where the true ​ payoff to Spotify is still in front of us, is podcasting.
In the last year alone, we’ve tripled the ​ ​ number of podcasts on our platform -- moving from about 700,000 in Q4 2019 to 2.2 million podcasts today.
We’ve also significantly grown the number of podcast users on Spotify.
Going forward our investments in originals and exclusives are creating more reasons for listeners to ​ choose Spotify … and our exclusive programming is already proving to be an essential part of our differentiation.
Other platforms have experienced inconsistent ​ ads growth in their early years and we are no exception.
We are putting more resources into ​ developing this business and in Q4, our ads business accelerated, finishing above forecast.
While this sounds like a good problem to have (and it is), it is difficult for us to predict how quickly we can open up new inventory...…I expect that as the category of audio ads matures and more radio dollars move to streaming, this area will become much more predictable, but for the next year or two, it will be a bit more uncertain.
I’m also focused on identifying where we can seize new opportunities and drive sustained growth in the long term.
But unlike video, there are only a handful of companies who will be able to take advantage of this disruption in audio.
No other company has the capabilities, or is as well positioned, as Spotify for this massive opportunity.
2 CLOSING REMARKS I’m very encouraged by the progress we’ve made on our path to becoming the world’s number one audio platform.
I want to thank all the Spotify employees who stayed focused on our creators, fans, and partners around the world this year, and for executing at such a high level.
Looking ahead, we will continue to enhance the user experience, expand into new markets, and develop and acquire unique content from both new and established creators.
We’re planning to share more details about these innovations, as well as what’s next for Spotify—during our “Stream On” event later this month.
I'll be talking more about it, and our earnings report on our podcast, Spotify: For The Record, which will go live on our platform tomorrow.