Q3 Results and Q4 Forecast Q3 average streaming paid memberships rose 25%, while streaming ARPU decreased 1.6% year over year.
Excluding a foreign exchange (F/X) impact of -$158m, streaming ARPU increased 1% vs. prior year.
We added 2.2m net memberships in Q3, compared with our 2.5m guidance.
We’re pleased with the progress we’re making in this region and, in particular, that we’ve achieved double digit penetration of broadband homes in both South Korea and Japan.
We continue to view quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in paid net adds as not that meaningful in the context of the long run adoption of internet entertainment, which we believe is still early and should provide us with many years of strong future growth as we continue to improve our service.
For our 2021 slate, we continue to expect the number of Netflix originals launched on our service to be up year over year in each quarter of 2021 and we’re confident that we’ll have an exciting range of programming for our members, particularly relative to other entertainment service options.
Our content successes highlight our ability to tap into our global audience of nearly 200m members and underscore the notion that content is discovered on Netflix.
Product and Partnerships We strive to be a global entertainment service that can satisfy the needs of members all over the world.
For example, in India in Q3, we localized our service to support Hindi in our user interface.
We’re also working with local partners like Reliance Jio, India’s largest mobile operator, where in Q3 we launched a bundle with their mobile and fiber broadband plans.
As part of this broad partnership, we’ll integrate Netflix with two of Jio’s set top boxes.
All of these initiatives are important and work in concert with our big investment in local originals to improve the Netflix experience for our members.
Linear television and other big categories of entertainment, like video games and user generated content from YouTube and TikTok are all vying for consumers’ attention and are strong drivers of screen time usage.
This past quarter, we saw the debut of Comcast’s Peacock, which comes on the heels of the launch of HBO Max and Disney+.
Disney’s recent management reorganization signals that it is embracing the shift to streaming entertainment.
We’ll continue to focus on pleasing our members and improving our service as quickly as possible so that we can be everyone's first choice for online entertainment.
We expect our FCF profile over the coming years to continue to improve as we increase our profitability and our transition to the production of Netflix originals (which requires more cash upfront vs. second run content) matures.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks, including those related to the coronavirus pandemic; and, competition, including consumer adoption of different modes of viewing in-home filmed entertainment.