We've navigated some of the toughest decisions the company has made over those years, from mailing DVDs around the U.S. to streaming around the world.
Every day, we work on making our service better, trying to make it so the billboard on the front of the UI, you could just click it and watch it and just like trust that result and then, of course, having amazing breadth of content, which we've been expanding.
So that -- our strategy is just to get better and better every day with that content, with that product, as we talked about.
So Netflix 2021 is going to be a much better service than Netflix 2020, which gives those newer members and existing members even more reason to stay highly engaged and stick around and also to entice future members to join.
But in terms of the march towards less traditional media, we've been on that for some time, meaning that it's just a more efficient, more impactful and more global way to talk to our members is not through always through the most traditional channels.
And so as the service gets better and better, we're able to take advantage of that.
So any revenue upside, we would tend to put into more content for our members, which generates more growth over time.
So we've been pretty good about that, which is taking that upside and then converting it into more and more growth through service quality.
So if we're trying to be more and more your go-to destination for entertainment, not to ignore an area of programming that kind of dominates broadcast, it would be silly of us.
And notably, when you think about this, I mean it almost feels like the legacy cable network MVPD disputes of the past where the aggregators are essentially becoming gatekeepers.
We've been lucky to be working, investing alongside, collaborating with a wide, wide range of device manufacturing partners around the world and really working together to create better Netflix experiences on those devices.
And then I guess the other model for distribution is just your deals with MVPDs as well as wireless companies, and you have a number of these deals globally.
Obviously, we're looking at it as how much growth acceleration, how much membership acceleration do we get by adding a channel like that but then wanting to understand sort of what -- large are the revenue impacts, right?
So we're looking at engagement and how frequently people use the service, churn characteristics to really make sure that we're delivering a high-quality experience to our members through those channels.
And then I guess looking at pricing, which is also slightly linked to the distribution discussion to some extent, but when you think about the pricing algorithm we've come to expect, it's been in that mid-single-digit growth range over time for Netflix.
And actually, we've invested in making the service more valuable to that period of time, adding more content, adding more service features to that period as well.
So -- and not surprisingly, the -- this membership base, both new and older, loves film and TV content, as we said, and they look pretty similar.
It's just a matter of timing as our service gets better, as maybe their income increases, as the Internet gets faster.
And then I guess when you think about the product itself, one of the big discussion points has been content discovery because there's an enormous amount of content and there are an enormous number of streaming services now.
And I would invite you to go back and sort of look at a Netflix experience from 5 years ago compared to today, and it's just stunning how much progress we can make through that process.
And we want to have so many hits that when you come to Netflix, you can just go from hit to hit to hit and never have to think about any of those other services, right?
So we generally are forward-investing into the growth of our business and into content.
Now video games, a great and interesting area, it's got a number of aspects in terms of multiplayer that are changing, e-sports that are changing, PC-based gaming.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2020 EARNINGS CALL | JUL 16, 2020 Copyright © 2020 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.