With 8.5m paid net additions in Q4, we crossed the 200m paid memberships mark.
Q4 Results and Q1 Forecast Average paid streaming memberships increased 23% year over year in Q4, while average revenue per membership1 was flat year over year both on a reported and foreign exchange (F/X) neutral basis.
We’re becoming an increasingly global service with 83% of our paid net adds in 2020 coming from 1 Average revenue per membership (ARM) is defined as streaming revenue divided by the average number of ​ streaming paid memberships divided by the number of months in the period; it was previously referred to as streaming ARPU.
Content The big growth in streaming entertainment has led legacy competitors like Disney, WarnerMedia and Discovery to compete with us in new ways, which we’ve been expecting for many years.
We continue to ramp up our local original content slate.
​ ​ In addition to titles with big viewership, we also aspire to have hits that become part of the cultural zeitgeist.
We also extended parental control support to downloads to give parents peace of mind regardless of how Netflix is used.
There are a wealth of options ranging from linear TV to video gaming to user generated content on YouTube and TikTok.
Combined with the launch of AppleTV+, WarnerMedia’s HBO Max, and NBCUniversal’s Peacock streaming services, this signifies that these companies all recognize the future is streaming entertainment, a vision we have been working towards since inception.
Our strategy is simple: if we can continue to improve Netflix every day to better delight our members, we can be their first choice for streaming entertainment.
Disney+ had a massive first year (87 million paid subscribers!)
Since day one, we’ve managed Netflix for the long term under the belief that pleasing our members would lead to strong value creation for our fellow shareholders.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks, including those related to the coronavirus pandemic; and, competition, including consumer adoption of different modes of viewing in-home filmed entertainment.