So I think in terms of modeling it, there's the underlying quality of the service.
And obviously, because of the work-from-home environment, there was an engagement lift across the board on streaming services in general.
We compete for time against TNF, TikTok and YouTube as well as HBO as well as Fortnite.
So really, the limiter for us is what's the quality of our service, how often, how many nights do you say, "Oh my God, I want to go to Netflix and watch the next show."
Is this based more on some kind of an algorithm around content release slate and subscriber momentum?
We've got titles that are coming out across an increasing range of genres, amazing movies like Old Guard and Extraction and more animation like Over the Moon and Willoughbys and Klaus, and so just basically delivering more value is for our members, better product experiences.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2020 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 20, 2020 effectiveness better, we will deliver more value to our members, and we'll occasionally go back and ask those members to pay a little bit more to keep that virtuous cycle of investment and value creation going.
Is this because most of the new additions in the U.S. are now people who already have been subscribers in the past?
But we also seek to innovate and come up with what are new ways that we can use to introduce Netflix to new members.
And so an idea that we're excited about, and we'll see how it goes, but we think that giving everyone in a country access to Netflix for free for a weekend could be a great way to expose a bunch of new people to the amazing stories that we have, the service, how the service works, really create an event and hopefully get a bunch of those folks to sign up.
So I guess that dovetails into a question I have for Ted, which is more around some of the shows that have been licensed or reverse-licensed, if I can use that term, to cable networks as Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
And the opportunity to stream Netflix for free either as an event or even as a starting tier, as a mainstream product with your licensed content or your legacy content, which may not be as productive anymore with your existing base, is that something that you're willing to explore in a bigger way?
I think we're always looking at new different ways for people to get a sample of the content that everyone's talking about, including trying the service out here and there in different ways.
I think licensing our content to other people are -- mostly, I think it's helpful for us to keep our original content on Netflix so people understand the value proposition of Netflix.
But there've been changes in marketing -- in the marketing leadership and recently on the content side.
And voluntary churn, like you pointed out in your book, I think, voluntary churn at Netflix is really low compared to other organizations.
So to make a change at that level, to deliberately seek a CFO more attuned to what an entertainment company looks like, it seems like a face shift in how you think about the company, about what Netflix today is versus maybe a decade ago.
I mean when you have 200 million subs and when the content slate is so big, content -- singular pieces of content should, in theory, become smaller parts of overall consumption, but seems like it's starting to have a bigger impact.
Could you help us think through the content skew in consumption?
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 10 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2020 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 20, 2020 underlying growth models like diffusion of word-of-mouth, Netflix is a better way to go, and then you capture a little more of that when you have a big show and then you have a shadow under that.
Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO, Chief Content Officer & Director It is true that it's less because in the earlier days of Netflix, remember, we were trying to figure out what we could stream.
Remember, in the early days of streaming, everyone was -- that was -- the marketing war was how many titles you had.
So what we've really done is concentrated on the titles that have a lot of impact and can aggregate big audiences and move the business forward and add a lot of value for our members.
But you are correct, it's significantly lower than it was when we first started streaming, I'd say, 10 years ago where we used to license an entire library of 800 films from somebody and nobody watched any of them.
But if you could help us think about not just the near-term impact of the Google move but also bigger and longer-term issues, I mean how do you plan to deal with aggregators?
And then to your point, look, I mean, the world is shifting to streaming into Internet TV, and a bunch of new players are coming in.
And so I think the dynamics between those relationships, aggregators and device manufacturers and new streaming services, are being worked out.
And we've really, really focused on making this a positive experience for them, adding more value to their devices because we're there, making it great for us because we get to use those devices to access new consumers around the world and making it great for the people to purchase those devices because they have these incredible experiences with Netflix and the amazing stories that we tell on those devices.
And Greg, I think last quarter, one of the things you had mentioned was the promotional impact of Netflix itself, like, instead of spending on marketing, you could use Netflix itself and the scale of Netflix as a promotional tool going forward.
But it would be great to get some context around how much of content consumption is actually driven by the recommendations that you put up on the screen versus other sources potentially.
And so I think, to your point, the model that we're working with is that millions of people, millions of our members, show up every day to our applications, our interfaces, looking for something great to watch.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 12 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2020 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 20, 2020 of devote their entire professional existence to making every aspect of that work better and better and better.
And the fundamental for us is member joy, which we look at how much of your viewing time do you choose to spend with Netflix, how many repeat days, what's retention, all of those aspects.
And primarily, what we're trying to do in our marketing is get people to talk about those things that they're watching and got to get it into the conversation, get it into the zeitgeist that the watching -- the heavy lifting of the watching is being handled by the recommendation and the presentations on Netflix on that first page you talked about earlier.
So how are you thinking about that pipeline of content as you go into next year?
Is that a big opportunity in terms of content acquisition?
I mean there's also been a lot of experimentation by the likes of Disney on the PVOD side as well as releasing some of their movies directly to consumers on streaming.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2020 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 20, 2020 lot of lumpiness in this just given the cadence of content production, but broadly, when you think about maybe a 3-year, 4-year kind of horizon, you are getting to a point where cash flow use is going to be more than just about content.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 15 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2020 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 20, 2020 Copyright © 2020 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.