Everywhere that we’ve launched Disney+, audiences have embraced the wide array of high-quality entertainment, both original and library content.
The growth of Disney+ speaks volumes about the strength of our IP, our unparalleled brands and franchises, and our amazing content creators….
And when you look across our full suite of streaming services we have exceeded 120 million paid subscriptions worldwide, with impressive subscriber gains for ESPN+ and Hulu, including the rapidly growing Hulu + Live TV.
By separating content creation from distribution, we’ve been able to streamline our processes and better align the organization toward these important strategic objectives as we accelerate our pivot to a DTC-first business model.
We were also fortunate to keep other parts of our creative pipeline active, and to continue post-production work for our Media Networks, Studios and Disney+.
ESPN Digital and ESPN+ have also performed exceptionally well, with September being the best month ever for ESPN streaming video.
ESPN+ continues its positive subscriber growth, reaching more than 10 million paid subscribers as of the end of the quarter—nearly tripling in size over the past year.
We also can’t wait for you to see the extraordinary content that’s being created for our full portfolio of streaming services – Disney+, ESPN+, Hulu and Star.
This was driven by a benefit of 8 points from the 53rd week and 8 points of growth from higher rates, offset by a 4- point decline due to a decrease in subscribers.
The decrease in subscribers benefitted by about 2 points from the launch of the ACC Network.
This improvement was driven by higher results at Hulu and ESPN+, partially offset by costs associated with the ongoing rollout of Disney+ and a decrease at our international channels.
At Hulu, the improvement was primarily due to both subscriber and advertising revenue growth, partially offset by higher programming and production costs.
Hulu ended the fourth quarter with 36.6 million paid subscribers, and ESPN+ ended the quarter with 10.3 million paid subscribers.
Disney+ ended Q4 with 73.7 million paid subscribers, or an increase of over 16 million subscribers versus Q3.
Disney+ Hotstar subscriber additions were the largest contributor to this increase, driven by the start of the delayed IPL season.
Disney+ Hotstar subscribers now account for a little over a quarter of our global subscriber base.
Our results came in better than that guidance, with operating income at our DTC businesses improving by approximately $300 million versus the prior year, due to better-than-expected performance across all three of our streaming services.
We expect the Q1 operating results of our DTC businesses to decline by approximately $100 million relative to the prior year quarter, driven by continued investment in Disney+, partially offset by improved results at both ESPN+ and Hulu.
We're in a world though now in a subscription business where we're managing churn.
And we've got a unique combination of assets in this company that are all at play right now in Disney+, where we've not only got the most desirable library in the world but we realize – and that really helps, by the way, minimize churn – but we also realize that new content that we put adds subscribers.
It's very clear to us that new content adds subscribers.
Page 15 Q4 FY20 Earnings Conference Call November 12, 2020 I would love any color you could give potentially on what you learned from the release of Mulan into premium video-on-demand and really how you think about – at least how you've thought about it in the past – your decision to allocate content on different platforms.
In terms of Soul, we also realized though that part of the lifeblood of Disney+ is providing great content to the base-level subscribers that are in there in premier – or in Disney+.
Content does what they do best and the same with distribution.
So essentially, distribution is now able to optimize the commercialization without maybe too much unnecessary regard for legacy distribution platforms.
And if you adjust, if you will, viewership over the last couple of months for the amount of available content, you see that they kind of slide together.
And I also ask because as you add more and more original content to your streaming services, I would Page 21 Q4 FY20 Earnings Conference Call November 12, 2020 think the benefit starts to shift in favor of the distributors as you add more and more value to those services.
We don't do too many, but we use them to strategically pursue growth of our subscriber base and lower subscriber acquisition costs.
We've made some reductions just this last week at ESPN as we manage the transition from linear to more of a digital experience and a direct-to-consumer experience.
And then can you talk a little bit about content spend as it relates to entertainment programming going into Disney+ and Hulu and Star and ESPN+.
ESPN+ obviously has been a – there's some nice growth there getting up to 10 million subs.
Do you expect to shift more of your portfolio from – or simulcast it – from linear to the DTC platform?
First, can you talk about the ad revenue per Hulu subscriber decline in the quarter that you referenced in the release?
Just given the strength that we're seeing in the sort of connected TV marketplace, I was kind of surprised to see that.
And I'm curious how you think about expanding sports content availability to consumers that don't have a pay-TV package.
But I will tell you that we've got a product that we're really excited about and has experienced some rapid growth, and that's Hulu + Live TV.
And it really gives the utility that consumers might normally find from the cable or satellite subscriber and be able to get it over-the-top directly to their homes.
And I think this will increasingly act as a solution to those households that have Page 26 Q4 FY20 Earnings Conference Call November 12, 2020 walked away from their traditional – more traditional cable type of subscriptions and potentially slide it over to Hulu + Live TV.
So we're excited about that in terms of solving a consumer need for those consumers, as you mentioned, that have walked away from that particular way of distributing and receiving content.