Like all of you, Spotify continues to navigate issues related to COVID-19 and racial injustice, both of which are reshaping our industry and society in significant ways.
Given the role we play in culture, we believe Spotify has a responsibility to use our platform to help build a more equitable future.
We're also taking a hard look at what we can do to build a more equitable workplace, and have committed to increasing representation of Black employees at all levels within Spotify.
Monthly Active Users increased to 299 million and Subscribers grew to 138 million, both exceeding our expectations.
We also continued to invest in our Audio-First strategy, signing exclusive deals with some of the world’s most well-known creators and most powerful voices.
Our podcast catalogue now has over 1.5 million shows, 50% of which launched in 2020.
UMG will leverage Spotify’s Marketplace tools for both frontline and catalog artists, to connect them with fans, grow their audience, and better monetize their fanbase.
Spotify has now surpassed 60 million 1 Q2 2020 Earnings Call July 29, 2020 tracks globally, giving artists even more opportunities to connect with their biggest fans.
In one of our recent podcast experiments, we increased listening among the test group by 33 percent.
If we do this right, we have the opportunity to reach 250 million more listeners in these markets over the long-term.
We’re now operating in nearly every country across Europe, but there’s still a lot of pent up demand for Spotify in markets around the world, which is why we have plans for further expansion globally.
What these two recent examples underscore is that staying focused on long term growth, whilst managing for speed of iteration near term, is what will drive future growth.
There are still billions of people who have yet to discover on-demand music streaming or listen to a podcast, and many more we have yet to reach in markets around the world.
2 Q2 2020 Earnings Call July 29, 2020 Speaking of podcasts, I’d encourage you to check out Spotify’s new “For the Record” podcast this Friday.
This is an exciting time to be focused on audio, and we’re only just getting started.