It's super hard to say if there's strategic long-term implications because we've just been scrambling to keep our servers running well, keep the content, get our postproduction done.
And I think just reiterating what Reed was saying, our real focus at this point in time has just been to keep our service operating at as high a quality as possible and available when our members need us and turn to us.
I think the long term is impossible to predict in terms of what this -- what the impact of this to our business, but we suspect that the long-term trends we've sort of talked about for many quarters now in terms of the shift from linear to streaming on-demand entertainment is consistent.
We've had an increase in subscriber growth in March.
But again, will Internet entertainment be more and more important over the next 5 years?
And I guess to the extent we could understand anything about the composition of that influx of subscribers that came, or we can see the geographic split, which is of course very helpful, and I think there's a pretty fair conclusion that I'd be interested and you're sort of addressing, which is that clearly the hardest hit markets by COVID were those that saw the greatest change in subscribers.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL | APR 21, 2020 Beyond that, I'm curious if you could talk at all about the sort of composition, even in the UCAN region, of whether it's a multiperson households or whether it's a different income strata or anything like that, that you feel that could give some insight into who's part of that ramp in members.
And the one thing we can control, which we talk about here, is we can control the quality of the service that we provide Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
And so we're just -- we're really just prioritizing that, number one, is improving the product, improving the content, making sure we have a steady stream of titles.
And within that is how much content is in the pipeline?
So I think it's -- consumers, I think, are -- we're trying to -- we believe that consumers like the control of all-at-once, and they could watch at their own pace.
So we'll actually have more branded Netflix Originals on our service this year than we had last year, even with what's planned for push spend.
So as we talked about in the letter, it's still a multiyear path to sustained Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
And how -- again, I know everything is a little bit upside down because of circumstances, but how impactful or influential do you think that has been in sort of keeping members on board, keeping members streaming and that sort of thing?
One of the things that people use as -- to pick what to watch is popularity.
A couple more on content, just it's such a huge focus, and I'll throw that to either Reed or Ted here, and that's really about how you're viewing third-party content, where clearly we had seen a shift, as you've been very clear about, in terms of your focus on your owned content versus license.
One being the ability to acquire more content if production is shut down on a prolonged period.
Theodore A. Sarandos Chief Content Officer Well, actually, one of the things you mentioned in the top 10, which kind of gives you the first kind of snapshot into how prevalent our original-branded programming has become on Netflix, and so that's continuing to push into that, both because we believe that our core suppliers will increasingly become competitors and not be as anxious to sell us content as they used to be long term.
And like most things we do on the service, we're constantly trying to improve those and figure out new and better ways to introduce the service to new members, to give them an easy on-ramp.
And it's consistent with sort of this broad theme and a broad goal that we have, which is we're seeking effective ways to make the Netflix service more accessible to more and more people around the world.
Can you talk about the competition there with that service and their ability to partner with a service that's already established, has a live offering?
We've been -- we've seen big growth in viewing in India and have had great success on our local originals there as well, most recently with She and Guilty and a few others, that have really been driving a lot of engagement in local content on our India service.
So we're growing the business, licensed, original, international, domestic, across the board in terms of content and content taste.
So I'd direct it to Reed, a fairly open-ended question, right, but this concept of streaming wars, is at all-time high intensity, especially in the U.S.
But what have you learned sort of over the last 3 to 6 months, if anything, and perhaps it's as you expected, but -- and what would you point to, if anything, that should be more evident to investors and the public about how this process of migration to streaming consumption is playing out?
And then there's a bunch more services coming to market.
So what we do is just try to figure out how do we have the best service we can kind of steady every day, solid execution, and then we'll get part of consumers' viewing.
At this time, I really want to focus on the content coming out given that many of us are doing a lot more streaming, and we always love recommendations.
And the second would be something already on the service that you've really enjoyed that maybe hasn't quite hit that popularity graphs that you think it deserves that we should be diving back into.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 15 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL | APR 21, 2020 Copyright © 2020 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.