Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 1 MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS (“MAUs”) Total MAUs grew 29% Y/Y to 299 million, which is at the top of our guidance range.
Parts of Latin America and Rest of World saw slower than expected growth in April and May as we saw lower intake, an increase in churn, and increases in payment failures from our Premium users.
Consumption trends by platform are beginning to normalize as well; in-car listening at the end of the quarter was less than 10% below pre-COVID levels having recovered from a 50% decline at the trough in April.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 2 Total MAUs by Region PREMIUM SUBSCRIBERS At the end of Q2’20 we had 138 million Premium Subscribers globally, up 27% Y/Y, which is at the top end of our guidance.
We saw strong subscriber growth across all regions in the quarter and finished ahead of our expectations.
Separately, the introduction of our TV app on Comcast’s proprietary X1 set-top box marked the first integration with a pay-TV provider in the US, demonstrating continued progress against our ubiquity strategy.
Our Y/Y churn improvement continues to be driven by the adoption of our higher retention offerings like Family & Student in addition to the overall maturity of our total subscriber base.
Our 3 Month Free trial offer was available until mid to late February in Q1, Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 3 which meant more subscribers than usual saw an end to their promotional offering in Q2.
Subscribers by Region FINANCIAL METRICS Revenue Total revenue of €1,889 million grew 13% Y/Y in Q2.
QTD through May, Ad-Supported revenues were down 25% Y/Y, but performance in the month of June showed significant Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 4 improvement and was only down 12% Y/Y.
Conversely, both our Ad Studio and Podcast channels saw double digit growth and exceeded our forecast.
Within Ad Studio (our self-service offering) we successfully rolled out video as a new product and expanded the platform out of beta into 22 markets as of June.
We continue to see positive growth in our Streaming Ad Insertion (“SAI”) technology, which will be more widely available to US advertisers this summer.
Our latest podcast advertising innovation involves In-App Offers powered by SAI, which resurfaces offers to podcast listeners with a visual reminder, allowing listeners to redeem offers in-app when the time is right for them.
Overall, podcast advertising outperformed in the quarter with momentum continuing into July.
We recognized efficiencies in Other CoR as streaming delivery costs were slightly more favorable relative to forecast.
As a reminder, we now account for all content costs related to podcast investment in the Ad-Supported business.
Product and Platform We continue to accelerate product innovation in order to enrich the consumer experience and serve the right content from the more than 60 million unique tracks and more than 1.5 million podcasts on our platform.
Once on the platform, we constantly add or improve features such as our recent announcement that we have removed the cap on the number of tracks a user can save, now offering the ability to save an unlimited number of songs, albums and podcasts to their collection of favorites (up from a max of 10,000 tracks previously).
With COVID-19 protective measures still in place, we launched a Listening Together microsite that visualizes when two Spotify listeners start to play the same song at the exact same time - which happens on average 30,000 times every second on Spotify.
A further enhancement to the user experience, Spotify launched a Group Session feature that allows up to five Premium users to share control over the music being played.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 6 Ubiquity remains a core strategy, and we continue to find ways for consumers to seamlessly connect with our platform.
This quarter we expanded our Spotify Free offering through Amazon Alexa devices beyond the US, Australia and New Zealand.
Additionally, we are also excited to be launching Spotify (Free and Premium) on Alexa in India.
With this new agreement, the companies advance their industry-leading partnership, reflecting a shared commitment to music’s continued growth, deeper music discovery experiences and collaboration on new, state-of-the-art marketing campaigns across Spotify’s platform.
During Q2, we announced a multi-year exclusive licensing deal with The Joe Rogan Experience, which will debut on Spotify in September 2020 and become exclusive on the platform later this year.
Additionally, we announced a multi-year partnership with Warner Bros. and DC to produce and distribute an original slate of narrative scripted podcasts exclusively on Spotify.
We are excited about these partnerships and look forward to creating an unrivaled content experience for Spotify listeners.
This content release marks the first multi-market promotional campaign for an audio-story on Spotify.
Today, 21% of our Total MAUs engage with podcast content, up from 19% of MAUs in Q1 2020, and consumption continues to grow at triple digit rates Y/Y.
We see strong MAU growth in podcast content across all regions for Spotify.
Overall supply of new podcast content recovered in Q2 after a slight impact related to COVID-19 in the previous quarter.
There have been a healthy number of releases for Catalog, as well as Spotify Originals within the quarter.
We launched 110 podcast playlists across 6 markets (including 49 new O&E podcasts outside the US) on a variety of themes and topics to continue to drive podcast discovery for users.
Currently, Spotify’s podcast catalog has over 1.5 million shows, 50% of which launched in 2020.
Our acquisition of Anchor last year has helped accelerate content growth on the platform with approximately three quarters of new podcast releases being powered by Anchor.
Spotify announced an additional 9 exclusives like Do You See What I See and Rapot to our Creator Accelerator Program in Indonesia, launched our first original podcast, Search Engine Sex, in Australia, and released our first exclusive, XRey, in Spain.
As COVID-19 has impacted the creator community and the way in which users interact with Spotify, we created user experiences that allow listeners to adapt to the current environment.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 7 Spotify launched an “At Home Music & Podcast Entertainment” hub, which has had over 20M unique visitors.
Additionally, we created a “COVID-19 Guide” podcast hub to serve as a resource to those wanting to engage and understand more about COVID-19 related information and topics.
As we mentioned last quarter, we launched the Spotify COVID-19 Music Relief project, through which we have partnered with organizations that offer financial relief to those in the music and creator community around the world.
As stated above, we recently announced a multi-year deal with Universal Music Group and together, we look forward to accelerating our progress in building new tools and offerings that will make a difference for artists around the world.
The number of artists and their teams utilizing our Spotify for Artists tools on a monthly basis has grown to more than 690,000, growth of 68% Y/Y, and these creators are finding ways to unlock new channels for discovery.
Growth in the number of artists making up our top tier (those accounting for the top 90% of streams) is accelerating; that cohort now stands at over 43,000 artists, up 43% from 30,000 one year ago.
Our product and platform are driving discovery, diversifying taste, and helping up-and-coming artists reach new audiences.
We also began piloting new targeting features in the Sponsored Recommendation product that allow for more flexibility to suit the unique needs of marketers.
Conversion remains high, and the number of artists taking advantage of these features grew more than 37% Q/Q.
At the end of Q2, we had €1.8 billion in cash Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 8 and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short term investments on our Balance Sheet, and no indebtedness2.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 9 EARNINGS QUESTION & ANSWER SESSION We will host a live question and answer session starting at 8 a.m.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: Direct Event Registration Portal: http://www.directeventreg.com/registration/event/2944914 We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.