But at the same time, one thing that's maybe counterbalancing that is that what COVID has done for that is it's accelerated that big shift from linear to streaming entertainment.
Obviously, we have more and more variety of content and great experiences that we're offering to our members.
So we're still a very small share of even just pay-TV penetration in most markets around the world and small share of viewing.
So again, there -- we've got a lot of subscribers here in the U.S., but we still have a lot more viewing time that we would like to earn with an embeddable service and embeddable content.
I mean this question may feel a little bit unfair, to be honest, because in many ways, you created the streaming template for others to replicate.
Other people are going to try to do that, too, and people will supplement their Netflix subscription to get that content, which I think is a super healthy dynamic.
Gregory K. Peters COO & Chief Product Officer I'm sorry, but if I could just add as well, I think there's the membership lens in the number of subscribers.
Spencer Wang Vice President of Finance, Corporate Development & Investor Relations And the only other thing I would add to that, Kannan, not to get too in the weeds on the numbers and not to take anything away at all from what Disney has done because it's been amazing, and I'm a happy customer myself, but 30% of their, I think, 87 million paid subscribers were Hotstar, which I think we all sort of recognize as a bit of a different service.
But when you think about Disney coming in or even Discovery or all these new launches that are happening, in some ways, this expands the pie quite a bit for streaming in general because there are also new distribution models that are being attempted.
So when you think about more streaming services coming out over the course of '21, does that, in some way, provide an opportunity to try new distribution avenues or accelerate growth because of the growth in streaming in some ways?
And really, I think the first bit is just even that big impetus to move is, to some degree, a tailwind for us because we have more and more consumers who are -- around the world who are aware of these services.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2020 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 19, 2021 We are seeking to be innovative and constantly pushing the edges around how we can accelerate our growth, how we can improve our distribution footprint, how do we access members more and more.
And also -- and what's really the key engine of our growth is just how do we satisfy those folks that have signed up for us because that really is the ultimate stimulus, when they have a great experience and they talk wildly about how great the service is, how amazing the titles that they're viewing there to their friends, their families, their colleagues, that's really what motivates that next round of subscribers to sign up.
So StreamFest in India, I mean the primary learning, which is very evident, is that there's a lot of interest amongst consumers in India to try Netflix.
And then on -- to your other point, I think Netflix members come to the service seeking to be entertained in a whole variety of ways.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2020 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 19, 2021 about revenue growth?
But to your point, specifically, what we're seeing is we have to find ways to improve the accessibility of the Netflix service.
And oftentimes, that means doing some trade-offs between subscriber growth at different ASPs.
And given the kind of volumes that you're doing on movies now and also because of COVID, there's been a significant shift in the release patterns for movie not just at Netflix but across the industry, does this, in some ways, create essentially a new distribution channel for you?
And does that become a new revenue stream at some point?
Kannan Venkateshwar Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division I guess the other side of this coin is, given your distribution scale now, if a studio wanted to release a movie on Netflix, this is one of the most efficient channels they can get to.
Why is that not an attractive model for Netflix, either in the form of a premium VOD channel or some other distribution model?
And I would say that we really believe that from a consumer orientation, the simplicity of our ad-free, no additional payments, one subscription, it's really, really powerful and really, really satisfying the consumers around the world.
Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO, Chief Content Officer & Director It's interesting when you challenge the people to figure out, one of the great things about the subscription model is I think it opens up for consumers to be much more adventurous about what they watch.
And it's included in my subscription by push play."
And we're seeing that at incredible scale already by watching -- Copyright © 2021 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
Kannan Venkateshwar Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division And I guess when you have this kind of content volume and also the kind of movie slate that you're putting up, it also gives you a lot more pricing power because instead of watching a movie for $10 or as a family for $30, you essentially pay for Netflix.
Every time we get another 10 minutes of watching on Netflix, you're increasing the value of that subscription.
And you have more product which consumers -- basically, that wallet is coming out of somewhere else instead of television.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2020 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 19, 2021 So you think about engagement with the service and retention and churn characteristics, acquisition.
But he's a voice about how to build large subscription businesses, which he's done.
But there have been a couple of streaming services in Southeast Asia, which essentially were acquired by some of the Chinese Internet majors.
To answer the first question, Kannan, with respect to other streaming services, our view is many people subscribe to multiple different services.
And we wanted to stay focused on capturing and earning that subscription from each person organically rather than just doing some sort of M&A deal.
Point two, in terms of your other question around what are we interested in, it is largely around things that can help us bolster our core business, which is entertainment and specifically content assets inclusive of things like intellectual property that we can hopefully turn into great TV shows and great movies.
And one instance that comes to mind is something like Roku, if it was part of the company instead of being spun out.
And it was an enormous test for us just to become a leader in both streaming and then original programming and then global.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 17 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2020 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 19, 2021 Copyright © 2021 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.