As we navigate these turbulent circumstances, we’re focused on our members by continuing to improve the quality of our service and bringing new films and shows to people's screens.
Average streaming paid memberships in Q2 rose 25% year over year while streaming ARPU increased 0.4% year over year.
Excluding a -$289m impact from foreign exchange (F/X), streaming ARPU grew 5% year over year.
Our paid net additions for the month of June also included the subscriptions we cancelled for the small percentage of members who had not used the ​ ​ service recently.
We continue to view the quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in paid net adds as not ​ ​ ​ that meaningful in the context of the long run adoption of internet entertainment which we believe provides us with many years of strong growth ahead.
Product and Partnerships We continue to test different pricing approaches in some countries including lower priced, mobile-only plans and our bundled offerings with MVPDs and ISPs.
While some of these carry lower ARPU, the goal is to accelerate membership growth on neutral-to-better short term revenue (with incremental acquisition and improved retention offsetting the lower price).
We think this strategy will increase long term revenue as a larger membership base can generate more word-of-mouth around our content and help us better understand peoples’ needs in that country - so that we can more quickly improve our catalog and product experience, which would then lead to higher member satisfaction and growth as well as improved long term retention.
A very small percentage of our members have not watched anything for the last two years and although we make it easy for people to cancel their subscriptions with just a few clicks, they have not taken advantage of that ability.
In a world where consumers have many subscriptions, auto-pause on billing after an extended period of non-use should be how leading services operate.
Competition All of the major entertainment companies like WarnerMedia, Disney and NBCUniversal are pushing their own streaming services and two of the most valuable companies in the world, Apple and Amazon, are growing their investment in premium content.
In addition, TikTok’s growth is astounding, showing the fluidity of internet entertainment.
Instead of worrying about all these competitors, we continue to stick to our strategy of trying to improve our service and content every quarter faster than our peers.
Our FCF profile is continuing to improve, which is being driven in part by our growing operating margin and the digestion of our big move into the production of Netflix originals that requires more cash upfront vs. licensed content.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks, including those related to the Coronavirus pandemic; and, competition, including consumer adoption of different modes of viewing in-home filmed entertainment.