I also want to acknowledge all of the creators whose livelihoods have been altered -- from the artists whose music continues to inspire us, to the podcasters who keep us entertained and informed.
We continue to see impressive user growth, up 31% last year.
We met our guidance by nearly every measure growing ​ both our subscribers and MAUs.
Obviously, a loss in ad revenue is something that every media company is experiencing during these challenging times.
Podcast consumption grew by triple digits during the quarter compared to just a year ago.
It was ​ also our biggest quarter ever for organic podcast creation.
While many companies have had to ​ adjust their output during this crisis, almost all of our originals and exclusives have either maintained or increased their pace of new releases in response to audience demand.
For example, our original podcasts Science Vs. and Fest & Flauschig have both doubled their ​ ​ ​ ​​ ​ weekly releases.
We also launched a new daily news podcast in Germany that has already ​ ​ ​ become the second-largest show in the country and regularly ranks in the top 20 worldwide.
​ We’ve been encouraged by the wave of creativity in new podcast creation this quarter.
More than 70 percent of new podcasts on Spotify were created with Anchor and within our own ecosystem.
With 286 million monthly active users and 130 million subscribers - it’s clear that audio -- and ​ Spotify -- continue to play an important role in our users’ daily lives.
Our solid performance is the ​ result of the audio-first strategy we put in place just over a year ago.
But over the last few weeks, we’ve seen listening start to rebound in a big way.
For example, when we saw consumption starting to decline, we would have assumed that MAUs and paid subscribers would be negatively impacted.
Last year, as you all know, we outlined a vision to be the world’s largest audio platform and we’ve made significant progress.
We now have more than 1 million podcasts on the platform, and we’re the #1 audio service for podcasts in dozens of countries around the world -- and quickly gaining ground where we’re not.
When I look ahead, both short and long term, I’m always thinking about what Spotify’s role is within the larger ecosystem.
And while most focus on the competition between streaming ​ services -- we continue to be focused on the billions of users that are listening to linear radio.
Time at home has moved people out of their cars, requiring them to shift their listening behaviors, and that’s when they discover streaming —- Spotify is best positioned to capitalize on this.
For us, it will always be about capturing the share of time listeners spend elsewhere, and prove out that their time is far better spent with us.
As routines -- like commuting to work and going to the gym -- were disrupted, and consumers started to form new habits, the ubiquity of our platform was a true advantage for Spotify.
And because we’re available on over 300 devices across 80 hardware brands, we are accessible to users even as their listening behaviors have changed.
For example, while listening in the car has declined, listening on gaming consoles is exploding and we continue to see increased listening on home speakers and through TVs.
On the music front, we were pleased to reach a long-term licensing deal with Warner Music that covers all of our existing markets and paves the way for us to enter new ones.
In the midst of an economic downturn, Spotify’s free tier and freemium model are more valuable than ever.
It’s important to remember ​ ​ that just over 60% of our paid subscribers come from our free tier so growing the top of the funnel has always been a priority.
With more and more people dealing with financial stress, our free service provides a bridge to ensure users don’t have to give up access to their favorite podcasts and music.
In fact, over the last few weeks we’ve seen an increase in the number of users coming to the platform for our free service.
Many of these listeners are returning to Spotify from lapsed accounts and some are joining from other streaming providers.
As you know, the majority of our competitors do not ​ have a free tier, which makes Spotify a more appealing option in this environment.
This should allow us to expand the pool of subscribers available to us as the economy recovers.
We also believe that we will likely see new opportunities due to the economic environment and that Spotify will ultimately come out of this as an even stronger company.