Today's call is also being webcast, and the webcast and a transcript will also be available on our website.
While much of our operations are shut-down, we’ve been fortunate to keep parts of our creative pipeline active, including a number of writing and development projects, while also continuing post-production work for our media networks, our studios and Disney+.
Moving to Media Networks, ESPN has truly stepped up in the absence of live sports, finding new and innovative ways to deliver compelling content that fans want.
We announced in early April that in just five months, we had surpassed 50 million subscribers globally - a significant milestone for us.
Hulu had 32 million total subscribers at the end of Q2.
Higher legacy TV/SVOD results were driven by content sales to Disney+, including The Lion King, Toy Story 4, Frozen II and Aladdin, partially offset by a decrease in sales to third parties.
Total Media Networks affiliate revenue was up 16% and reflects the consolidation of 21CF and growth at both Cable and Broadcasting.
And we are very pleased with the success of our roll-out in Western Europe and India, including the execution of previously announced deals with some European platforms to distribute the service to all paid subscribers on certain of their widely distributed tiers, and in India to convert our preexisting subscription based Hotstar service to Disney+ Hotstar.
As of May 4, we estimate we had approximately 54.5 million Disney+ subscribers, reflecting a subscriber mix generally similar to our mix at April 8.
Segment results also reflect the consolidation of an operating loss at Hulu and a benefit from the consolidation of the 21CF international cable businesses.
And then I was curious, you guys are - you're probably going to be approaching the low end of your 2024 guidance on direct-to-consumer subscribers potentially by the end of this quarter based on the growth you're seeing, but certainly over the next couple of quarters.
Given that faster ramp and what's happening with people staying at home and streaming more, I'm just wondering if that's impacting your plans around investing in the business, or - and if you think you'll reach profitability sooner than originally laid out.
Following along the lines of Ben's question, given the crisis has accelerated the shift towards streaming around the world, any change in your plan to pursue Hulu international launches next year?
I could understand that the potential… sort of cost of launching Hulu, could also have you considering delaying that.
Frankly, we, long-term, are still bullish about Hulu International.
And some of those industry groups are things like financial services, tech, telecom, the DTC or streaming services, and also consumer packaged goods.
So can you talk about your ability to maybe air some of the content that would traditionally be on ESPN on ABC?
And we are now - we have one group who sells across the Media Networks segment.