February 3, 2021 Dear Shareholders,1 We ended 2020 with strong Q4 performance as the business delivered substantial MAU growth, subscriber additions that exceeded our guidance, an improvement in ARPU trends, acceleration of users who engage with podcast content, better than expected Gross Margin, and Free Cash Flow of €74 million.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 1 MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS (“MAUs”) Total MAUs grew 27% Y/Y to 345 million in the quarter, reaching the top end of our guidance range.
Based on the behavior we see when users first join Spotify, we are confident that podcast usage has been a factor in the accelerated net additions.
On December 2, 2020, we launched the 6th annual year-end Spotify Wrapped campaign.
This year focused on engaging new audiences by demonstrating the power of listening to connect, celebrating and supporting our creator communities in a meaningful way, and evolving Wrapped to deliver a more purposeful and personal experience for our users.
This spurred more than 50 million shares of Wrapped stories and cards and a considerable amount of platform consumption on our three personalized playlists, with the latter driving 8% of total consumption hours on December 3, the day after launch.
We have seen per user consumption in large regions such as Europe and North America return to growth, while Latin America and Rest of World show signs of improvement but remain slightly below pre-COVID levels.
Total MAUs by Region Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 2 PREMIUM SUBSCRIBERS Our Premium Subscribers grew 24% Y/Y to 155 million in the quarter, exceeding the top end of our guidance range.
In Q4, we added 10 million subscribers, with all regions contributing to growth, led by Europe and North America.
Of note this quarter was the launch of Spotify Premium Mini in India and Indonesia, which gives users daily and weekly access to a subset of their favorite Premium features for a lower price as part of Spotify’s commitment to continuously explore new ways to improve our Premium experience.
Subscribers by Region Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 3 FINANCIAL METRICS Revenue Total revenue of €2,168 million grew 17% Y/Y in Q4 or 24% Y/Y on a constant currency basis.
We saw strong Y/Y revenue growth across all of our regions and channels as advertiser demand continued to rebound from Q2 2020 lows.
The strength in Ad-Supported revenue was led by our Podcast, Direct, and Ad Studio channels, with Podcast and Ad Studio both growing over 100% on a Y/Y basis.
Podcast performance benefited from strong underlying demand from advertisers with a 50% increase in the number of companies spending in this channel vs. Q3.
Streaming Ad Insertion (“SAI”), our targeted, impression-based podcast ad product, is now live across most of our Owned & Exclusive (“O&E”) portfolio and available in four markets (US, Canada, UK and Germany).
payment fees, streaming delivery costs), a favorable revenue mix shift towards podcasts, and a change in estimated music royalties were partially offset by higher non-music and other content costs.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 4 Premium Gross Margin was 28.9% in Q4, up from 27.3% in Q3 and up 145 bps Y/Y.
As a reminder, we now account for all content costs related to podcast investment in the Ad- Supported business.
Product and Platform We continue to lean into our ubiquity strategy, launching increased podcast support on connected Google and Alexa devices during the quarter.
All Spotify users can now play and control podcasts through their Google Assistant-enabled device in English globally.
With all of the new content available on Spotify, we are continually making enhancements to the Home Tab to improve discovery and activation of content.
In Q4, we launched our first-ever mixed-media morning show, The Get Up, in the US, where listeners get the best of both worlds with music and news.
Additionally, Spotify users everywhere can now upload custom covers and descriptions to their homemade playlists using their mobile phones.
Content We continue to lean into our goal of becoming the world’s number one audio platform through compelling new music and exclusive non-music content.
As of Q4, we had 2.2 million podcasts on the platform (up from more than 1.9 million podcasts in Q3).
Of note, 25% of our Total MAUs engaged with podcast content in Q4 (up from 22% of MAUs in Q3 2020).
We continue to see strong growth in podcast consumption, with consumption hours in Q4 nearly doubling since Q4 2019.
We have increasing conviction in the causal relationship between the growth in podcast consumption driving higher LTV and retention among our user base.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 5 In an effort to grow audio monetization across the industry, we acquired Megaphone on December 8.
Megaphone is one of the world’s most innovative platforms for enterprise podcast hosting and monetization.
With this acquisition, we have the ability over time to make SAI technology available to third-party publishers on Spotify while growing our pool of targetable podcast inventory for advertisers.
In December, The Joe Rogan Experience became exclusive to Spotify, driving a meaningful uptick in audience for the show on our platform.
As of year-end, The Joe Rogan Experience was the #1 podcast on our platform in 17 markets.
While it remains early days, we are very encouraged by the performance of this content since its arrival on our platform, as it has stimulated new user additions, activated first time podcast listeners, and driven favorable engagement trends, including vodcast consumption.
Internationally, we released 57 new Original & Exclusive (“O&E”) podcasts.
We also signed 6 podcasts exclusively to our creator support program in Indonesia.
Two-Sided Marketplace Our Sponsored Recommendations have continued a strong pace of growth, with December marking the single biggest month ever.
Canvas gives artists a powerful new way to develop fans on Spotify, and we have found that when listeners see a Canvas they are more likely to keep streaming (+5% on average vs. control group) or even share and save the track.
In our continued effort to connect fans to listeners, we debuted Weekly Music Charts for songs and albums in 46 new markets.
From a revenue standpoint, advertising was negatively affected in the back half of Q1 and persisted throughout the rest of the year.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 7 unknown duration of the pandemic and its ongoing effect on user, subscriber, and revenue growth.
Daniel Ek, our Founder and CEO, and Paul Vogel, our Chief Financial Officer, will be on hand to answer questions submitted through slido.com using the event code #SpotifyEarningsQ420.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: Direct Event Registration Portal: http://www.directeventreg.com/registration/event/5373637 We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 8 STREAM ON Spotify will be hosting a virtual event — Stream On — on Monday, Feb 22 to share the latest on the state of global audio streaming and where it's headed in the future.
We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.