Today's call is also being webcast, and the webcast and a transcript will also be available on our website.
Of course, the high point of the quarter was the highly-anticipated launch of our streaming service, Disney+.
Since then, consumers have continued to sign up for the service, directly at disneyplus.com; through Verizon, which offers a free year of Disney+ to many of its customers at no additional cost; as well as through other distributors, including Apple, Google, LG, Microsoft, Samsung, Sony and Roku.
We recognize there’s a lot of interest in this new business, and we wanted to give you some additional context -- so, I’m pleased to say, as of Monday, we were at 28.6 million paid subscribers.
We believe the subscriber growth to date and the overall reaction to Disney+ reflects a variety of factors that include the uniqueness of the service, an excellent user interface, and the high quality of our brands and content.
And although our volume will increase, we remain focused on providing quality content from our core franchises and brands, not just quantity, as we continue to build our portfolio.
We will be rebranding our existing Hotstar “VIP” and “Premium” subscription tiers to “Disney+ Hotstar.” We see this as a great opportunity to use the proven platform of Hotstar to launch the new Disney+ service in one of the most populous countries and fastest growing economies in the world.
Looking across our portfolio of direct-to-consumer businesses, we’re also pleased with the growth of ESPN+ -- we ended the quarter with 6.6 million paid subscribers and, as of Monday, Page 5 Q1 FY20 Earnings Conference Call FEBRUARY 4, 2020 we were at 7.6 million.
At Hulu, we recently announced that we will be reorganizing the business to more closely integrate it into our direct-to-consumer segment in order to operate more efficiently and effectively as we look to expand our domestic consumer base, as well as our presence outside of the U.S. With respect to subscriber numbers, we remain optimistic about the future of the service.
“FX on Hulu” will also offer in-season streaming, as well as back seasons for most current and library series.
We view this as a fantastic opportunity to expose FX’s exceptional content to a broader audience, while also making it available to consumers in new ways.
We believe there’s tremendous appetite for our content, and the goal of “FX on Hulu” is to expand our reach to include those viewers who are not linear pay TV subscribers -- and that includes many of Hulu’s young and highly-engaged streaming audience.
I’m enormously proud of what we have accomplished in a relatively short period of time, and believe we’re now well-positioned to, not only withstand the disruptive forces of technology, but thrive in today’s increasingly dynamic media environment.
Higher legacy TV/SVOD results were driven by content sales to Disney+, partially offset by a decrease in sales to third parties.
Total Media Networks affiliate revenue was up 19% and reflects the consolidation of 21CF and growth at both Cable and Broadcasting.
And we expect the continued investment in our DTC services, specifically Disney+, which will launch in a number of European markets late in the second quarter, and the consolidation of Hulu, to drive an adverse impact on the year-over-year change in segment operating income of our DTC businesses of approximately $520 million.
As Bob mentioned, Disney+ had 28.6 million paid subscribers as of yesterday, an increase of 2.1 million since the end of the first quarter.
Turning to the Eliminations segment, revenue and profit eliminations were significantly higher in Q1, driven primarily by the intersegment content sales from Studio and Media Networks to DTCI.
50% of people who use the service have watched movies, as a for instance.
So with that in mind, we feel that validates the collection of those brands and a blend of product that includes, obviously, the library or legacy TV and films of short-form and long form, and then original programming.
Jessica Reif Ehrlich – Bank of America Merrill Lynch One more question on direct-to-consumer, and then the NFL.
And we feel that we need to concentrate on those launches, and the marketing and the creation of product for those, and then come in with Hulu right after or soon after that.
I think it's a loud statement about what's going on in the world today in terms of consumer tastes, particularly young people, which is why the demographics of Hulu are substantially younger than the demographics on some of our traditional linear networks, et cetera, et cetera.
We're not giving specifics about price at this point, but expect that there'll be 2 primary products brought into India: one will be more premium in nature that will include the entire library plus original programming; and the other one will be more basic that will have the library and not the original programming -- priced for the market and launched at a very peak period of time for the IPL, the Cricket League.
We take advantage of the presence of Star in the market and the millions of subscribers that they also have.
We take advantage of the sports tie-in, and we use the interface Page 16 Q1 FY20 Earnings Conference Call FEBRUARY 4, 2020 and the technology -- that includes the billing -- that already exists to launch a service, we believe, under very, very optimal circumstances.
Is there any more you can share with us in terms of what the -- where the subscribers came from?
Meaning sort of like what type of subscriber they are?
And so the 26.5 in subscribers came roughly 50% directly through Disney+.com, for instance -- where not only weren't we revenue sharing with others, but a lot of those subscribers… well many of them may have bought a year- long service or even a 3-year, but many of them bought basically the month for the full price.
About 20% of those subscribers came from Verizon, and the rest came from the variety of other services that are distributing the app, including the iTunes platform.
And the other thing that we noted was that the bundle with ESPN and with Hulu was very helpful in terms of lowering churn rates.
You talked about ARPU churn, content spend… You know, the target is for 60 million to 90 million subs in '24 and profitability.
What we know about those markets – not to in any way pour cold water on them, because we know that those brands are strong in the markets, and this product is already working -- the interest in streaming in general in those markets isn't as high as it has been in the United States.
Not that those markets haven't been already seeded with streaming.
We're extremely well-priced and we created a service from a technical basis and a user interface basis that is really working.
Is the content that’s available in the U.S. also sort of the same content available in Europe?
We measure frequency, which is the number of times people stream per week since launch.
And we're looking at multiple hours a week streamed per subscriber.
You do have to factor in that in some markets, there's lower broadband penetration.
But there are other markets, obviously, India being one, that you have lower broadband.
It's even higher than the non-advertising Hulu SVOD list price.
So just wondering if you could share what's going on with advertising ARPU on the Hulu SVOD, it must be a big number?
Most of the subscribers subscribe to the ad-supported.
I would think you could kind of make life harder on some of your more expensive streaming competition, like Netflix or HBO, by keeping the price low for as long as you can and keeping that engagement with customers.
And we have confidence in their content resonating with consumers on a global basis.
As it relates to transfer pricing of content, the Studio definitely will benefit from the content sales to DTCI -- the Pay 1 windows.