Document Cloud is accelerating productivity for how far we’ve come and to plant a flag for our future anyone who works on the go, from small businesses to aspirations.
Over the last ten years, Adobe led an industry government agencies to multinational corporations.
transformation to the cloud as well as our own business transformation.
We connected content to data, created new In the experience economy, every business must be categories and continuously introduced new technologies a digital business.
Experience Cloud offers the most that democratized creativity and transformed businesses.
comprehensive set of solutions to power digital businesses, As we begin 2020, I am more optimistic than ever about from online retailers to the world’s largest enterprises.
During the 2019 holiday shopping season, Experience Cloud predicted over $140 billion in online spend leveraging Adobe’s mission—to Change the World Through Digital Adobe Analytics, Adobe Commerce Cloud and Adobe Experiences—has never been more relevant or powerful.
The moves we’ve made, combined with immense market tailwinds, continue to Adobe Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience propel our business forward.
Through partnerships with organizations like the Royal OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE IN 2019 Shakespeare Company, emerging artists are using Creative Cloud to reimagine the world, including the works of In fiscal year 2019, we had an outstanding year, surpassing Shakespeare and beyond.
$11 billion in revenue and achieving 24% annual revenue growth with record profitability.
Our revenue and EPS performance make us and communicate in everyday life, and PDF makes it all one of the largest, most valuable, diversified and profitable software companies in the world, putting Adobe in a giving anyone—from the most demanding professional to rarefied atmosphere.
We’re enabling cutting-edge creativity across In addition to our strong financial results, we drove media types, making the creative process more productive incredible innovation across our clouds, added millions of and collaborative, and delivering new magic with Adobe new customers, delivered billions of experiences across Sensei, our artificial intelligence and machine learning screens and processed trillions of data transactions online.
With the introduction of newer products like Photoshop Camera, Adobe Spark and Premiere Rush, we’re Content continues to fuel the global economy, driving broadening our reach to the next generation of creators greater demand for digital media than ever before, with an and business communicators.
This trend is accelerating our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud performance.
We To Accelerate Document Productivity, we’re focused on finished the year with Digital Media annualized recurring leading the paper-to-digital transformation with Document revenue (ARR) of $8.4 billion.
In FY19, our Digital Experience revenue grew levels of productivity for small businesses, nonprofits and to a record $3.21 billion, representing 31% year-over- enterprises alike.
We’re helping the world’s largest brands rearchitect their technology platforms, people and Experience Cloud is helping Power Digital Businesses with processes to drive business growth.
We have a unique solutions that enable businesses to meet the challenges of and valuable perspective as a company that has used its digital transformation and drive engagement and customer own technology to transform its business, and we are now loyalty.
We’ve optimized our offerings to provide data enabling other companies to do the same.
and insights, content and commerce, customer journey management and advertising, all running on the Adobe GROWTH STRATEGY Experience Platform.
Our platform allows businesses to harness their data and provide an amazing customer As we look to the future, we are focused on three core experience in real time.
We’re building on our affinity with strategies to drive our next era of growth: Unleashing Chief Marketing Officers to drive customer experience Creativity for All; Accelerating Document Productivity; management with Chief Information Officers and across and Powering Digital Businesses.
universe of customers we serve and evolving our offerings beyond market-leading applications to include intelligent ALWAYS INNOVATING services and an open platform.
We are driving leadership in large categories we have created across creativity, Adobe has always distinguished itself by looking around documents and customer experience management.
We’re on Unleashing Creativity For All with Creative Cloud, making a fundamental bet around artificial intelligence being part of the core fabric throughout our entire product authenticity, data privacy and security.
Each year, we continue to be ranked as one of content attribution, and we’ve invited other companies the most innovative companies in the world.
We want to about the opportunities to continue to provide technology drive adoption of a shared industry framework to give breakthroughs to help our customers succeed.
We believe that when people feel valued and included, Our goal is to provide exceptional digital experiences while they are more creative, innovative and successful.
“Adobe helping our customers responsibly unlock the power of for All” is our commitment to building a workforce that’s data.
Adobe is guided by our fairness in promotions and horizontal movement across core values—to be genuine, exceptional, innovative and demographic groups.
support of 48,000 nonprofit organizations and invested approximately $50 million in our communities.
In 2019, a record 70% of Adobe our core values—to be genuine, exceptional, employees participated in our giving and volunteering innovative and involved—which has been programs, lending both their time and unique talents to nonprofits.
And, with 23 million students having access to Adobe Spark, we’re LOOKING AHEAD helping the next generation build the skills they need to compete in the digital age.
After more than 20 years at Adobe, what energizes me and makes me proud is seeing the far-reaching impact Adobe We are partnering with organizations that share technologies have today and the future we can build.
As our commitment to elevating diverse voices and CEO of Adobe, my greatest joy comes from seeing our creating greater opportunities for all, especially the customers light up when they talk about our products— underrepresented.
The Adobe Creativity Network whether that’s running into a Lightroom user in a coffee reaches 150,000 youth in 25 countries with scholarships shop who proudly shows me his latest creation, talking to and product grants.
In 2019, we awarded $3.5 million in a small business owner who is using Adobe Scan, Adobe creativity and Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Acrobat and Adobe Sign to go paperless, or meeting with a Math (STEAM) scholarships.
INVESTING IN A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE “Our 23,000 global employees endeavor to have Corporations and people can’t succeed without a a resounding impact on creativity, business and healthy planet.
Adobe’s best days are ahead, and I am electricity by 2022. honored to lead such an exceptional company.
Creative Cloud enables design, digital prototyping and workflows that reduce physical production and transportation and their accompanying emissions.