These General Terms of Use ("General Terms"), along with any applicable Additional Terms (see section 1.2 below) and the Subscription and Cancellation terms (collectively "Terms") govern your use of our website, customer support, and services such as Creative Cloud (collectively “Services”) and software that we include as part of the Services, as well as any applications, Sample Files and Content Files (defined below), scripts, source code, instruction sets, and related documentation (collectively “Software”).
If you reside outside of North America, your relationship is with Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited, and the Terms are governed by the law of Ireland.
Our Services and Software are licensed, not sold, to you, and may also be subject to one or more of the additional terms below ("Additional Terms").
At the end of your license term, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to allow you to transition your Content out of the Services.
We may designate the Services or Software as “trial,” “evaluation,” “not for resale,” or other similar designation (“NFR Version”).
4.3 Licenses to Your Content in Order to Operate the Services and Software.
We require certain licenses from you to your Content in order to operate and enable the Services and Software.
When you upload Content to the Services and Software, you grant us a nonexclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, sublicensable, and transferable license to use, reproduce, publicly display, distribute, modify (so as to better showcase your Content, for example), publicly perform, and translate the Content as needed in response to user driven actions (such as when you choose to privately store or share your Content with others).
This license is only for the purpose of operating or improving the Services and Software.
Some Services and Software may provide features that allow you to Share your Content with other users or to make it public.
If you submit Feedback to us however, then you grant us a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, sublicensable, and transferable license to make, use, sell, have made, offer to sell, import, reproduce, publicly display, distribute, modify, and publicly perform the Feedback.
Your account administrator may use your account information to manage your use and access to the Services and Software.
If you are located in a different country from the applicable Adobe entity that you are transacting with (i.e., Adobe Inc. for North American customers and Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited for customers in all other countries), your payments will be made to a foreign entity.
You authorize us to continue billing your account with the updated information that we obtain.
By uploading your Content to the Services or Software, you agree that you have: (a) all necessary licenses and permissions to use and Share your Content; and (b) the rights necessary to grant the licenses in the Terms.
You will indemnify us and our subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, agents, employees, partners, and licensors from any claim, demand, loss, or damage, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of or related to your Content, your use of the Services or Software, or your violation of the Terms.
10.1 Unless stated in the Additional Terms, we are not liable to you or anyone else for any loss of use, data, goodwill, or profits, whatsoever, and any special, incidental, indirect, consequential, or punitive damages whatsoever, regardless of cause (even if we have been advised of the possibility of the loss or damages), including losses and damages (a) resulting from loss of use, data, or profits, whether or not foreseeable; (b) based on any theory of liability, including breach of contract or warranty, negligence or other tortious action; or (c) arising from any other claim arising out of or in connection with your use of or access to the Services or Software.
10.2 Our total liability in any matter arising out of or related to the Terms is limited to US $100 or the aggregate amount that you paid for access to the Service and Software during the three-month period preceding the event giving rise to the liability, whichever is larger.
Group administrators for a Service such as “Creative Cloud for teams” may terminate a user’s access to a Service at any time.
We may modify, update, or discontinue the Services or Software (including any portions or features) at any time, without liability to you or anyone else.
If we discontinue the Services or Software in its entirety, we will also allow you a reasonable time to download your Content and we may provide you with a pro rata refund for any unused fees for that Service or Software that you prepaid.