The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20230228231008/https://www.spotify.co… Legal Terms and Conditions of Use Copyright Policy Privacy Policy User Guidelines Premium Offer Terms Spotify Terms and Conditions of Use Effective as of 2019-02-07 1 Introduction 2 Changes to the Agreements 3 Enjoying Spotify 4 Payments and cancellations 5 Using our service 6 Third Party Applications and Devices 7 User-Generated Content 8 Rights you grant us 9 User guidelines 10 Infringement and reporting User Content 11 Service limitations and modifications 12 Brand Accounts 13 Spotify Support Community 14 Customer support 15 Export control 16 Term and termination 17 Warranty disclaimer 18 Limitation and time for filing 19 Third party rights 20 Entire agreement 21 Severability, waiver and interpretation 22 Assignment 23 Indemnification 24 Choice of law, mandatory arbitration, and venue 25 Contact us Hello, and welcome to the Spotify Terms and Conditions of Use ("Terms").
The Terms you see below are important because they: Outline your legal rights on Spotify Explain the rights you give to us when you use Spotify Describe the rules everyone needs to follow when using Spotify Contain a class action waiver and an agreement to resolve any disputes that may arise by arbitration Please read these Terms, our Privacy Policy and any other terms referenced in this document carefully.
Here we go... 1 Introduction Thanks for choosing Spotify ("Spotify," "we," "us," "our").
Spotify provides personalized services with social and interactive features for streaming music and other content as well as other products and services that may be developed from time to time.
By signing up or otherwise using any of these Spotify services, including all associated features and functionalities, websites and user interfaces, as well as all content and software applications associated with our services (collectively, the "Spotify Service" or "Service"), or accessing any music, videos or other content or material that is made available through the Service (the "Content") you are entering into a binding contract with Spotify USA Inc.
If you don't agree with (or cannot comply with) the Agreements, then you may not use the Spotify Service or access any Content.
In order to use the Spotify Service and access any Content, you need to (1) be 18 years or older, or be 13 years or older and have your parent or guardian's consent to the Agreements, (2) have the power to enter a binding contract with us and not be barred from doing so under any applicable laws, and (3) reside in the United States.
You also promise that any registration information that you submit to Spotify is true, accurate, and complete, and you agree to keep it that way at all times.
3.1 Service Options You can find a description of our Service options on our website, and we will explain which Service options are available to you when you create a Spotify account.
The Spotify Service that does not require payment is currently referred to as the "Free Service."
Other options require payment before you can access them (the "Paid Subscriptions").
We may also offer special promotional plans, memberships, or services, including offerings of third-party products and services in conjunction with or through the Spotify Service.
We will explain which services are available to you when you are signing up for the services.
You may also purchase access to a Paid Subscription through a third party.
3.2 Trials From time to time, we or others on our behalf may offer trials of Paid Subscriptions for a specified period without payment or at a reduced rate (a "Trial").
By providing such details you agree that we may automatically begin charging you for the Paid Subscription on the first day following the end of the Trial on a recurring monthly basis or another interval that we disclose to you in advance.
4 Payments and Cancellations 4.1 Billing You may purchase a Paid Subscription directly from Spotify or through a third party either by (1) paying a subscription fee in advance on a monthly basis or some other recurring interval disclosed to you prior to your purchase; or (2) pre-payment giving you access to the Spotify Service for a specific time period ("Pre-Paid Period").
4.2 Renewal; Cancellation Unless your Paid Subscription has been purchased for a Pre-Paid Period, your payment to Spotify or the third party through which you purchased the Paid Subscription will automatically renew at the end of the applicable subscription period, unless you cancel your Paid Subscription before the end of the then-current subscription period by clicking here if you purchased the Paid Subscription through Spotify, or if you purchased the Paid Subscription through a third party, by canceling the Paid Subscription through such third party.
The cancellation will take effect the day after the last day of the current subscription period, and you will be downgraded to the Free Service.
If you have purchased a Paid Subscription using a Code, your subscription will automatically terminate at the end of the period stated in the Code, or when there is an insufficient pre-paid balance to pay for the Service.
5 Using our service The Spotify Service and the Content are the property of Spotify or Spotify's licensors.
We grant you limited, non-exclusive, revocable permission to make use of the Spotify Service, and limited, non-exclusive, revocable permission to make personal, non-commercial use of the Content (collectively, "Access").
This Access shall remain in effect until and unless terminated by you or Spotify.
You promise and agree that you are using the Spotify Service and Content for your own personal, non-commercial use and that you will not redistribute or transfer the Spotify Service or the Content.
Third party software (for example, open source software libraries) included in the Spotify Service are made available to you under the relevant third party software library's license terms as published in the help or settings section of our desktop and mobile client and/or on our website.
6 Third Party Applications and Devices The Spotify Service is integrated with or may otherwise interact with third party applications, websites, and services ("Third Party Applications") and third party Devices to make the Spotify Service available to you.
7 User-Generated Content Spotify users may post, upload, or otherwise contribute content to the Service (which may include, for example, pictures, text, messages, information, playlist titles, descriptions and compilations, and/or other types of content) ("User Content").
For the avoidance of doubt, "User Content" includes any such content posted to the Spotify Support Community as well as any other part of the Spotify Service.
Spotify may, but has no obligation to, monitor, review, or edit User Content.
Spotify is not responsible for User Content nor does it endorse any opinion contained in any User Content.
8 Rights you grant us In consideration for the rights granted to you under the Agreements, you grant us the right (1) to allow the Spotify Service to use the processor, bandwidth, and storage hardware on your Device in order to facilitate the operation of the Service, (2) to provide advertising and other information to you, and (3) to allow our business partners to do the same.
In any part of the Spotify Service, the Content you access, including its selection and placement, may be influenced by commercial considerations, including Spotify's agreements with third parties.
Some Content licensed by, provided to, created by or otherwise made available by Spotify (e.g.
podcasts) may contain advertising as part of the Content.
The Spotify Service makes such Content available to you unmodified.
You grant Spotify a non-exclusive, transferable, sub-licensable, royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable, fully paid, worldwide license to use, reproduce, make available to the public (e.g.
9 User guidelines Spotify respects intellectual property rights and expects you to do the same.
We've established a few ground rules for you to follow when using the Service, to make sure Spotify stays enjoyable for everyone.
"crawling" the Spotify Service or otherwise using any automated means (including bots, scrapers, and spiders) to view, access or collect information from Spotify or the Spotify Service; 13. selling a user account or playlist, or otherwise accepting or offering to accept any compensation, financial or otherwise, to influence the name of an account or playlist or the content included on an account or playlist; or 14. artificially promoting Content by automated means or otherwise.
Please respect Spotify, the owners of the Content, and other users of the Spotify Service.
You also agree that Spotify may reclaim your username for any reason.
Please be thoughtful about how you use the Spotify Service and what you share.
The Spotify Service includes social and interactive features, including the ability to post User Content, share content, and make certain information about you public.
Remember that shared or publicly available information may be used and re-shared by other users on Spotify or across the web, so please use Spotify carefully and be mindful of your account settings.
10 Infringement and reporting User Content Spotify respects the rights of intellectual property owners.
11 Service limitations and modifications Spotify will make reasonable efforts to keep the Spotify Service operational.
You understand, agree, and accept that Spotify will make reasonable efforts, although it has no obligation to maintain, support, upgrade, or update the Service, or to provide all or any specific content through the Service.
Spotify and/or the owners of any Content may, from time to time, remove any such Content without notice.
A Brand may follow users and create and share playlists, provided that the Brand does not take any action that implies an endorsement or commercial relationship between the Brand and the followed user, artist, songwriter, or any other person, unless the Brand has independently obtained the rights to imply such an endorsement.
By using the Spotify Support Community, you agree to the Community Terms.
16 Term and termination The Agreements will continue to apply to you until terminated by either you or Spotify.
IN NO EVENT WILL SPOTIFY, ITS OFFICERS, SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, DIRECTORS, SUBSIDIARIES, AFFILIATES, SUCCESSORS, ASSIGNS, SUPPLIERS, OR LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR (1) ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; (2) ANY LOSS OF USE, DATA, BUSINESS, OR PROFITS (WHETHER DIRECT OR INDIRECT), IN ALL CASES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SPOTIFY SERVICE, DEVICES THIRD PARTY APPLICATIONS, OR THIRD PARTY APPLICATION CONTENT, REGARDLESS OF LEGAL THEORY, WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER SPOTIFY HAS BEEN WARNED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF THOSE DAMAGES, AND EVEN IF A REMEDY FAILS OF ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE; OR (3) AGGREGATE LIABILITY FOR ALL CLAIMS RELATING TO THE SPOTIFY SERVICE, THIRD PARTY APPLICATIONS, OR THIRD PARTY APPLICATION CONTENT MORE THAN THE AMOUNTS PAID BY YOU TO SPOTIFY DURING THE PRIOR TWELVE MONTHS IN QUESTION.
Please note, however, that certain aspects of your use of the Spotify Service may be governed by additional agreements.
That could include, for example, access to the Spotify Service as a result of a gift card, free or discounted Trials, or together with other services.
Some of those additional terms are listed on Spotify's website.
Spotify can also help put you in touch with the AAA.
Contracting entity: Spotify USA Inc. 4 World Trade Center, 150 Greenwich Street, 62nd Floor, New York, NY 10007 USA COMPANY About Jobs For the Record COMMUNITIES For Artists Developers Advertising Investors Vendors USEFUL LINKS Support Web Player Free Mobile App USA Legal Privacy Center Privacy Policy Cookies About Ads © 2023 Spotify AB