Item 1. Business ABOUT US Netflix, Inc. (“Netflix”, “the Company”, “we”, or “us”) is the world’s leading subscription streaming entertainment service with over 167 million paid streaming memberships in over 190 countries enjoying TV series, documentaries and feature films across a wide variety of genres and languages.
Members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on any internet-connected screen.
Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials.
Additionally, over two million members in the United States ("U.S.") subscribe to our legacy DVD-by-mail service.
We are a pioneer in the delivery of streaming entertainment, launching our streaming service in 2007.
Since this launch, we have developed an ecosystem for internet-connected screens and have added increasing amounts of content that enable consumers to enjoy entertainment directly on their internet-connected screens.
As a result of these efforts, we have experienced growing consumer acceptance of, and interest in, the delivery of streaming entertainment.
Our core strategy is to grow our streaming membership business globally within the parameters of our operating margin target.
We are continuously improving our members' experience by expanding our streaming content with a focus on a programming mix of content that delights our members and attracts new members.
In addition, we are continuously enhancing our user interface and extending our streaming service to more internet-connected screens.
Our members can download a selection of titles for offline viewing.
Our revenues are primarily derived from monthly membership fees for services related to streaming content to our members.
COMPETITION The market for streaming entertainment is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change.
We compete against other entertainment video providers, such as multichannel video programming distributors ("MVPDs"), streaming entertainment providers (including those that provide pirated content), video gaming providers and more broadly against other sources of entertainment that our members could choose in their moments of free time.
We also compete against streaming entertainment providers and content producers in obtaining content for our service, both for licensed streaming content and for original content projects.
While consumers may maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple entertainment sources, we strive for consumers to choose us in their moments of free time.
In attempting to win these moments of truth with our members, we are continually improving our service, including both our technology and our content, which is increasingly exclusive and curated, and includes our own original programming.
1 Table of Contents SEASONALITY Our membership growth exhibits a seasonal pattern that reflects variations when consumers buy internet-connected screens and when they tend to increase their viewing.
Historically, the first and fourth quarters (October through March) represent our greatest streaming membership growth.
In addition, our membership growth can be impacted by our content release schedule and changes to pricing.
We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our members and the public about our company, our services and other issues.
Our ability to continue to attract members will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our members with compelling content choices, effectively market our service, as well as provide a quality experience for selecting and viewing TV series and movies.
Furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain memberships.
Competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as MVPDs, and streaming entertainment providers (including those that provide pirated content), as well as video gaming providers and more broadly other sources of entertainment that our members could choose in their moments of free time.
If consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain members.
In addition, many of our members rejoin our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing members.
Further, if excessive numbers of members cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members with new members.
Changes in competitive offerings for entertainment video, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business.
The market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change.
Through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access entertainment video.
The various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models.
All of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the entertainment video market.
Piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business, as its fundamental proposition to consumers is so compelling and difficult to compete against: virtually all content for free.
Furthermore, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth.
Traditional providers of entertainment video, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet based e-commerce or entertainment video providers are increasing their streaming video offerings.
Several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition, exclusive rights to certain content and significant financial, marketing and other resources.
New entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing entertainment video.
In connection with licensing streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with studios and other content providers.
Payment terms for certain content commitments, such as content we directly produce, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other content licenses or arrangements whereby we do not cashflow the production of such content.
To the extent membership and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements.
If we license and/or produce content that is not favorably received by consumers in a territory, or is unable to be shown in a territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted.
We also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials.
We are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including TV series and movies.
We believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members.
We may decide to remove content from our service, not to place licensed or produced content on our service or discontinue or alter production of original content if we believe such content might not be well received by our members, or could be damaging to our brand or business.
If studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected.
Our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights, including distribution rights, to such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute.
As content providers develop their own streaming services, they may be unwilling to provide us with access to certain content, including popular series or movies.
If the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members may be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase.
Certain licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly.
As we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content.
If we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected.
Music and certain authors’ performances contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution.
In this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations (“CMOs”) that hold certain rights to music and/or other interests in connection with streaming content into various territories.
Additionally, as the market for the digital distribution of content grows, a broader role for CMOs in the remuneration of authors and performers could expose us to greater distribution expenses.
We are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our DVD service within the U.S. As our international offering evolves, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and streaming video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments.
As we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party “cloud” computing services.
Further, we may expand our content offering in a manner that is not well received by consumers.
If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations and original content, our business may be adversely affected.
For example, the European Union recently revised its Audio Visual Media Services Directive to require that European works comprise at least thirty (30) percent of media service providers’ catalogs, and to require prominence of those works.
If we fail to maintain or, in newer markets establish, a positive reputation concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected.
We believe that a positive reputation concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members.
To the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted.
To the extent our content is deemed controversial or offensive by government regulators, we may face direct or indirect retaliatory action or behavior, including being required to remove such content from our service, our entire service could be banned and/or become subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny across our business and operations.
With newer markets, we also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these newer markets may be adversely impacted.
Changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected.
We utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites, to promote our service and content to existing and potential new members.
We may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing platforms or practices intrusive or damaging to our brand.
If the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to engage members and attract new members may be adversely affected.
For example, if they decide that they want to compete more directly with us, enter a similar business or exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to their marketing channels.
We utilize marketing to promote our content, drive conversation about our content and service, and drive viewing by our members.
We rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices.
We currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected screens, including TVs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices.
We have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers, some of whom may have investments in competing streaming content providers.
In many instances, our agreements also include provisions by which the partner bills consumers directly for the Netflix service or otherwise offers services or products in connection with offering our service.
If partners or other providers do a better job of connecting consumers with content they want to watch, for example through multi-service discovery interfaces, our service may be adversely impacted.
We intend to continue to broaden our relationships with existing partners and to increase our capability to stream TV series and movies to other platforms and partners over time.
If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory, business or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to retain members and grow our business could be adversely impacted.
Furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than Netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices’ performance, the connection between these devices and Netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward Netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business.
In addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices, or may lead to us to stop supporting the delivery of our service on certain legacy devices.
If partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, or if we discontinue support for certain devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted.
Interruptions in these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver our service.
Service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members.
Because of our prominence, we (and/or third parties we use) may be a particularly attractive target for 7 Table of Contents such attacks, and from time to time, we have experienced an unauthorized release of certain digital content assets.
We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party provider.
In addition, we utilize third-party “cloud” computing services in connection with our business operations.
We also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream TV series and movies in high volume to Netflix members over the internet.
This includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices.
For example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network (“CDN”).
To the extent Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”) do not interconnect with our CDN or charge us to access their networks, or if we experience difficulties in our CDN’s operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected.
We also utilize third-party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business.
As our service and others like us gain traction in international markets, governments are increasingly looking to introduce new or extend legacy regulations to these services, in particular those related to broadcast media and tax.
For example, recent changes to European law enables individual member states to impose levies and other financial obligations on media operators located outside their jurisdiction.
8 Table of Contents Changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business.
We rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet.
To the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our membership acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted.
Furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted.
Most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming.
While we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted.
In the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with content acquisition and merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize information supplied by our members, which may include personal information and other data.
Our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, prepaid cards, direct debit, online wallets and direct carrier and partner billing.
In certain instances, we leverage third parties such as our cable and other partners to bill subscribers on our behalf.
If these third parties become unwilling or unable to continue processing payments on our behalf, we would have to transition subscribers or otherwise find alternative methods of collecting payments, which could adversely impact member acquisition and retention.
If the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand, content, and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected.
We use the intellectual property of third parties in creating some of our content, merchandising our products and marketing our service.
It also may result in our inability to use our current website, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products.
We may also have to remove content from our service, or remove consumer products or marketing materials from the marketplace.
Our cash flows provided by our operating activities have been negative in each of the last five years, primarily as a result of our decision to increase the amount of original streaming content available on our service.
We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations, which could adversely affect our financial position.
We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations, including streaming content obligations.
Moreover, we expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future and to incur other obligations, including additional streaming content obligations.
Such amount does not include streaming content commitments that do not meet the criteria for liability recognition, the amounts of which are significant.
As a result, we may be unable to react to any downturn in the economy or reduction in our cash flows from operations by reducing our streaming content obligations in the near-term.
We may be unable to attain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the Notes, and other obligations, including amounts due under our streaming content obligations.
Other Data: As of / Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 (in thousands) Global streaming paid memberships at end of period 167,090 139,259 110,644 89,090 70,839 Global streaming paid net membership additions 27,831 28,615 21,554 18,251 16,363 A paid membership (also referred to as a paid subscription) is defined as a membership that has the right to receive Netflix service following sign-up and a method of payment being provided, and that is not part of a free trial or other promotional offering by the Company to certain new and rejoining members.
Results of Operations The following represents our consolidated performance highlights: As of/ Year Ended December 31, Change 2019 2018 2017 2019 vs. 2018 2018 vs. 2017 (in thousands, except revenue per membership and percentages) Global Streaming Memberships: Paid net membership additions 27,831 28,615 21,554 (3)% 33 % Paid memberships at end of period 167,090 139,259 110,644 20 % 26 % Average paying memberships 152,984 124,658 99,323 23 % 26 % Average monthly revenue per paying membership $ 10.82 $ 10.31 $ 9.43 5 % 9 % Financial Results: Streaming revenues $ 19,859,230 $ 15,428,752 $ 11,242,216 29 % 37 % DVD revenues 297,217 365,589 450,497 (19)% (19)% Total revenues $ 20,156,447 $ 15,794,341 $ 11,692,713 28 % 35 % Operating income $ 2,604,254 $ 1,605,226 $ 838,679 62 % 91 % Operating margin 13% 10% 7% 30 % 43 % Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased 28% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018.
Streaming Revenues We derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services related to streaming content to our members.
We offer a variety of streaming membership plans, the price of which varies by country and the features of the plan.
The following tables summarize streaming revenue and other streaming membership information by region for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017.
Cost of Revenues Amortization of streaming content assets makes up the majority of cost of revenues.
Expenses associated with the acquisition, licensing and production of streaming content (such as payroll and related personnel expenses, costs associated with obtaining rights to music included in our content, overall deals with talent, miscellaneous production related costs and participations and residuals), streaming delivery costs and other operations costs make up the remainder of cost of revenues.
We have built our own global content delivery network (“Open Connect”) to help us efficiently stream a high volume of content to our members over the internet.
Streaming delivery expenses, therefore, include equipment costs related to Open Connect, payroll and related personnel expenses and all third-party costs, such as cloud computing costs, associated with delivering streaming content over the internet.
Other operations costs include customer service and payment processing fees, including those we pay to our integrated payment partners, as well as other costs incurred in making our content available to members.
Other costs increased $789 million primarily due to increases in expenses associated with the acquisition, licensing and production of streaming content as well as increased payment processing fees driven by our growing member base.
Investments in original content, and in particular content that we produce and own, require more cash upfront relative to licensed content.
We expect to continue to significantly increase our investments in global streaming content, particularly in original content, which will impact our liquidity and result in future net cash used in operating activities and negative free cash flows for many years.
The increased use of cash was primarily driven by the increase in investments in streaming content that require more upfront payments, partially offset by a $4,362 million or 28% increase in revenues.
The payments for streaming content assets increased $2,567 million, from $12,044 million to $14,611 million, or 21%, as compared to the increase in the amortization of streaming content assets of $1,684 million, from $7,532 million to $9,216 million, or 22%.
In addition, we had increased payments associated with higher operating expenses, primarily related to increased headcount to support our continued improvements in our streaming service, our international expansion and increased content production activities.
The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2019: Payments due by Period Less than More than Contractual obligations (in thousands): Total 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Streaming content obligations (1) $ 19,490,082 $ 8,477,367 $ 8,352,731 $ 2,041,340 $ 618,644 Debt (2) 20,723,441 736,969 2,581,471 1,705,201 15,699,800 Operating lease obligations (3) 2,756,893 277,642 571,313 521,124 1,386,814 Other purchase obligations (4) 894,108 624,674 232,492 36,612 330 Total $ 43,864,524 $ 10,116,652 $ 11,738,007 $ 4,304,277 $ 17,705,588 (1) As of December 31, 2019, streaming content obligations were comprised of $4.4 billion included in "Current content liabilities" and $3.3 billion of "Non- current content liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and $11.8 billion of obligations that are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as they did not then meet the criteria for recognition.
26 Table of Contents Streaming content obligations include amounts related to the acquisition, licensing and production of streaming content.
These contracts are primarily related to streaming delivery and cloud computing costs, as well as other miscellaneous open purchase orders for which we have not received the related services or goods.
27 Table of Contents Streaming Content We acquire, license and produce content, including original programing, in order to offer our members unlimited viewing of entertainment.
The content licenses are for a fixed fee and specific windows of availability.
Payments for content, including additions to streaming assets and the changes in related liabilities, are classified within "Net cash used in operating activities" on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
On average, over 90% of a licensed or produced streaming content asset is expected to be amortized within four years after its month of first availability.
Our business model is subscription based as opposed to a model generating revenues at a specific title level.
29 Table of Contents Historical Segment Information Historically, we reported contribution profit (loss) for three segments: Domestic streaming, International streaming and Domestic DVD, which was reflective of how our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") reviewed financial information for the purposes of making operating decisions, assessing financial performance and allocating resources.
Because we increasingly obtain multi-territory or global rights for streaming content, contribution profit (loss) on a regional basis is no longer a meaningful metric reviewed by the CODM or used in the allocation of resources.
As the transition to one segment occurred during 2019, we are providing supplemental pro-forma information reflecting our historic segment reporting as if it had remained in place for the full year ended December 31, 2019 as follows: As of/Year ended December 31, 2019 Domestic International Domestic Streaming Streaming DVD Consolidated (in thousands) Total paid memberships at end of period 61,043 106,047 2,153 Total paid net membership additions (losses) 2,557 25,274 (553) Revenues $ 9,243,005 $ 10,616,225 $ 297,217 $ 20,156,447 Cost of revenues 4,867,343 7,449,663 123,207 12,440,213 Marketing 1,063,042 1,589,420 — 2,652,462 Contribution profit $ 3,312,620 $ 1,577,142 $ 174,010 5,063,772 Other operating expenses 2,459,518 Operating income 2,604,254 Other income (expense) (542,023) Provision for income taxes 195,315 Net income $ 1,866,916 Item 7A.
The Company amortizes Streaming Content based on factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns.
The Company is the world’s leading subscription streaming entertainment service with over 167 million paid streaming memberships in over 190 countries enjoying TV series, documentaries and feature films across a wide variety of genres and languages.
Members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on any internet-connected screen.
Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials.
Additionally, over two million members in the United States ("U.S.") subscribe to our legacy DVD-by-mail service.
See the Company's updated Streaming Content policy below for further details.
Streaming Content The Company acquires, licenses and produces content, including original programming, in order to offer members unlimited viewing of TV series and films.
The content licenses are for a fixed fee and specific windows of availability.
Payments for content, including additions to streaming assets and the changes in related liabilities, are classified within "Net cash used in operating activities" on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
On average, over 90% of a licensed or produced streaming content asset is expected to be amortized within four years after its month of first availability.
The Company's business model is subscription based as opposed to a model generating revenues at a specific title level.
The Company is the principal in all its relationships where partners, including consumer electronics (“CE”) manufacturers, multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”), mobile operators and internet service providers (“ISPs”), provide access to the service as the Company retains control over service delivery to its members.
Typically, payments made to the partners, such as for marketing, are expensed, but in the case where the price that the member pays is established by the partners and there is no standalone price for the Netflix service (for instance, in a bundle), these payments are recognized as a reduction of revenues.
The expected timing of payments for these streaming content obligations is as follows: 56 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Less than one year $ 8,477,367 $ 8,611,398 Due after one year and through 3 years 8,352,731 8,841,561 Due after 3 years and through 5 years 2,041,340 1,684,582 Due after 5 years 618,644 148,334 Total streaming content obligations $ 19,490,082 $ 19,285,875 Content obligations include amounts related to the acquisition, licensing and production of streaming content.
Historically, the Company reported contribution profit (loss) for three segments: Domestic streaming, International streaming and Domestic DVD, which was reflective of how the Company’s CODM reviewed financial information for purposes of making operating decisions, assessing financial performance and allocating resources.
Because the Company increasingly obtains multi-territory or global rights for streaming content, contribution profit (loss) on a regional basis is no longer a meaningful metric reviewed by the CODM or used in the allocation of resources.
See Note 1 Revenue Recognition for additional information about streaming revenue by region.