The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20201207010435/https://www.youtube.com/t/usage_paycontent Search Sign in AAbboouutt PPrreessss && BBllooggss CCooppyyrriigghhtt SSaaffeettyy CCrreeaattoorrss && PPaarrttnneerrss AAddvveerrttiissiinngg DDeevveellooppeerrss HHeellpp YouTube Paid Service Usage Rules TERMS OF SERVICE Paid Service Terms of Service Paid Service Usage Rules As described in the YouTube Paid Service Terms of Service, how you access or use different types of Paid Services on Collecting Society Notices YouTube may vary.
The usage rules applicable to each type of Paid Service are detailed below, and may change over time as Copyright Notices we add new features, devices and content to our service.
You may also visit the YouTube Help Center for more information.
Community Guidelines Video Rentals and Purchases Certain types of Paid Services allow you to purchase or rent individual items of content made available by third parties.
You may view rentals or purchases when online, with a broadband connection and logged onto your YouTube or Google account.
You may also view certain rentals and purchases offline by viewing from a previously authorized device.
Due to restrictions from our content providers, purchased or rented content may not be available for purchase or playback outside of the territory where you completed your transaction.
Rental Content: When you rent content, you may view such item of content an unlimited number of times during the period of time displayed at the time of your payment ("Viewing Period") and noted in your confirmation email.
Rented content may only be viewed on one device at a time.
As noted in the YouTube Paid Service Terms of Service, if an item of purchased content becomes unavailable during the five year period from the purchase date, you may request a refund.
Unless otherwise notified in the purchase process, you may also receive access to your rentals and purchases through another Google product (e.g.
Your use of your rentals and purchases from YouTube shall be governed by the YouTube usage rules, but these additional rules will govern your use on these Google products.
For rental content, you can view certain rentals when (1) online and logged into that Google product or (2) offline by downloading and viewing from a previously authorized device.
Rented content may only be viewed or downloaded on only one device at a time.
For purchased content, in addition to the access described above, you may (1) authorize up to 5 devices for offline playback of purchased content at a time and to authorize additional devices, you must de-authorize one of those 5 devices, (2) only authorize the same device twice every 12 months, and (3) only authorize a total of 2 devices for offline playback every 90 days.
Paid Channel Subscriptions Certain types of Paid Services allow you to access a YouTube channel or package of channels made available by third parties, each containing a variety of content, in exchange for a one-time or recurring subscription fee.
When you purchase a subscription to a channel or package of channels, you will have access to stream any content currently available within that subscription an unlimited number of times.
Our partners may decide to periodically update the content they make available in the subscription, and some items of content may either become unavailable or be made available for free when this happens.
You may only view content within a subscription when you are online, with a broadband connection and logged into your YouTube or Google account, but in some cases you may be able to access the content while offline for limited periods of time.
Due to restrictions from our content providers, subscription content may not be available for playback outside of the territory where you completed your transaction.
Language: English Location: United States Restricted Mode: Off History Help About Press Copyright Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety Send feedback Test new features