The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20210126181510/https://www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/display.html?nodeId=G2B9L3YR7LR8J4XP Skip to main content Hello Hello, Sign in Returns Select your address All Account & Orders All Best Sellers Prime Customer Service New Releases Today's Deals Find a Gift Books Gift Cards True love, low prices Help & Customer Service ‹ All Help Topics Amazon Prime Find more solutions Amazon Prime Benefits Amazon Prime Sign Up for the Amazon Prime Free Trial Share Your Amazon Prime Shipping and Delivery › Amazon Prime› Benefits Amazon Prime Terms & Conditions Pause Your Amazon Prime Membership End Your Amazon Prime Last updated June 30, 2020 Membership The Amazon Prime Membership Welcome to the terms and conditions ("Terms") for Amazon Prime.
These Terms are between you and Fee Amazon.com Services LLC and/or its affiliates ("Amazon.com" or "Us") and govern our respective Use 1-Click with Amazon Prime rights and obligations.
Please note that your use of the Amazon.com website and Prime membership Using a Promotional Code for are also governed by the agreements listed and linked to below, as well as all other applicable terms, Amazon Prime conditions, limitations, and requirements on the Amazon.com website, all of which (as changed over Exchange a Prime Gift time) are incorporated into these Terms.
If you sign up for a Prime membership, you accept these terms, Membership conditions, limitations and requirements.
Buy a Prime Gift Membership Conditions of Use Scan the Amazon Elements Code Amazon.com Privacy Notice Amazon Prime Terms Amazon Video Terms of Use Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) Amazon Music Terms of Use and Medicaid Cards Amazon Photos Terms of Use Amazon Incentives Purchase Kindle Store Terms of Use Terms for Amazon Prime Membership Codes Membership Cancellation If you signed-up for your Prime membership directly through us, you may cancel your Prime Quick solutions membership any time by visiting Your Account and adjusting your membership settings.
If items you signed up for your Prime membership through a third party, you may need to contact the third party Manage Prime to cancel your membership or receive any refund under its applicable policies.
Prime memberships Cancel or view redeemed through a Prime gift code or promotional code are not refundable.
They are limited to certain products sold by Amazon.com (or third-party sellers Carrier Info participating in Prime) on the Amazon.com website and to certain products on third-party websites that Shipping carrier offer Prime shipping benefits.
Products eligible for Prime will be designated as such on their product information pages.
The Prime section of our Help pages provides information about eligible items, shipping cost, shipping speed, and shipping destinations.
Other Benefits and Supplemental Memberships Click here for information about additional Prime benefits.
We also offer Prime members supplemental memberships, which are subject to these Terms, require you to be a Prime member, and may have additional fees and terms.
As used in these Terms, “Prime” applies to all supplemental memberships.
We may send you email and other communications related to Prime and your Prime membership (regardless of any settings or preferences related to your Amazon account).
You may not transfer or assign your Prime membership or any Prime benefits, including promotion codes for Prime memberships or benefits, except as allowed in these terms.
Prime members are not permitted to purchase products for the purpose of resale, rental, or to ship to their customers or potential customers using Prime benefits.
Some Prime benefits may require certain purchase thresholds, have quantity or shipping address limitations, or require members to meet specified criteria in order to access them.
From time to time, Amazon may choose in its sole discretion to add or remove Prime membership benefits.
Fees and Renewal The membership fee for Prime is stated in the Prime section of our Help pages.
The Prime membership fee is non-refundable except as expressly set forth in these Terms.
Taxes may apply on either or both of the membership fee and the reduced shipping charges for Prime.
If you sign up for your Prime membership through us and are billed by us, then the billing terms described below will apply to your membership.
UNLESS YOU NOTIFY US BEFORE A CHARGE THAT YOU WANT TO CANCEL OR DO NOT WANT TO AUTO RENEW, YOU UNDERSTAND YOUR PRIME MEMBERSHIP WILL AUTOMATICALLY CONTINUE AND YOU AUTHORIZE US (WITHOUT NOTICE TO YOU, UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW) TO COLLECT THE THEN-APPLICABLE MEMBERSHIP FEE AND ANY TAXES, USING ANY ELIGIBLE PAYMENT METHOD WE HAVE ON RECORD FOR YOU.
If you signed up for your Prime membership through a third party and are not billed directly by us, then the billing terms provided by the third party will apply to your membership.
If you sign up for a qualification-based Prime membership (including but not limited to Prime Student and Prime for qualifying customers with an EBT or Medicaid card), you will receive certain Prime benefits for the reduced rate specified in the Prime section of our Help page.
To sign up for and use a qualification-based Prime membership, you must meet the eligibility conditions described on the applicable enrollment page and provide any required documentation.
Agreement Changes We may in our discretion change these Terms, Amazon.com's Conditions of Use and Privacy Notice, or any aspect of Prime membership, without notice to you.
Termination by Us We may terminate your Prime membership at our discretion without notice.
THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY WILL APPLY TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW AND WILL SURVIVE CANCELLATION OR TERMINATION OF YOUR PRIME MEMBERSHIP.
Zappos Ring eero WiFi Designer Warehouse America’s Healthiest Deals and Shoes & Smart Home Stream 4K Fashion Brands Great Deals on Grocery Store Shenanigans Clothing Security Systems Video Quality Used in Every Room Products Neighbors App Amazon Subscription PillPack Amazon Renewed Amazon Second Real-Time Crime Boxes Pharmacy Like-new products Chance & Safety Alerts Top subscription boxes – Simplified you can trust Pass it on, trade it right to your door in, give it a second life Conditions of Use Privacy Notice Interest-Based Ads © 1996-2021, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates