These General Terms of Use (“General Terms”), along with any applicable Additional Terms (see section 1.2 (Additional Terms) below) (collectively, the “Terms”) govern your use of and access to our website, customer support, discussion forums or other interactive areas or services, and services such as Creative Cloud (collectively, the “Services”) and software that we include as part of the Services, as well as any applications, including mobile applications, Sample Files and Content Files (defined below), scripts, instruction sets, and related documentation (collectively, the “Software”).
If you have agreed to the Subscription and Cancellation Terms, then such terms are also considered part of the Terms.
If you are using and accessing the Services and Software through Adobe’s Value Incentive Plan (“VIP”) program, then the Subscription and Cancellation Terms do not apply to you, but the remainder of these Terms will govern your use of and access to the Services and Software.
If you reside outside of North America, your relationship is with Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited, and the Terms are governed by the law of Ireland.
Our Services and Software are licensed, not sold, to you, and may also be subject to one or more of the additional terms below (“Additional Terms”).
Adobe Stock K-12 and Higher Adobe Developer Business Customers Contributor Education Adobe Substance 3D Adobe Fonts Demo Assets Lightroom Assets Adobe Substance 3D Adobe Sign Document Cloud Medium Community Assets Adobe Spark Behance Fuse Mixamo Adobe Stock Business Catalyst InDesign Server Software 1.3 Business Users.
If you received an “Entitlement” (which is defined as the right to use, access, and consume the Software and Services) from an organization or group, including but not limited to a business or any other commercial entity, government entity, non-profit organization, or educational institution (each, a “Business”) under one of Adobe’s business plans (such as Creative Cloud for Teams, Creative Cloud for Enterprise, or Document Cloud), then (A) you are a “Business User” of such Business; (B) your Adobe profile associated with such Entitlement is a “Business Profile”; and (C) all references to “you” in these Terms will mean such Business.
If you are a Business User, you agree that, due to your receipt of Entitlements from such Business, (1) Adobe may provide such Business with the ability to access, use, remove, retain, and control your Business Profile and all Content therein whether uploaded or imported before or after the date these Terms were last updated; (2) your use of the Services and Software is governed by such Business’s agreement with Adobe; and (3) Adobe may provide your personal information to such Business.
If you did not receive Entitlements from a Business (e.g., you purchased a Creative Cloud for individuals plan and received Entitlements through this plan), then (a) you are a “Personal User”; (b) your Adobe profile is a personal profile; (c) you maintain sole access and control over all Content in your personal account or personal profile (except as otherwise indicated in the Privacy Policy); and (d) all references to “you” in these General Terms will mean you as an individual.
As a Personal User or a Business User, you may create an Adobe account using an email address provided or assigned to you by a Business (such as your work email address).
You, as an individual or a Business User, also acknowledge that Adobe may provide your personal information to such Business, such as your name or email address.
Subject to your compliance with the Terms and applicable law, you may access and use the Services and Software that we make available, and that you license from us.
The version(s) of the Services and Software available at your renewal date may be different from the version(s) available when you first purchased your license(s) from Adobe.
We recommend that you back up your Content and Creative Cloud Customer Fonts elsewhere regularly if the Services provide storage and this functionality is enabled by the applicable Services.
At the end of your license term, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to allow you to transition your Content out of the Services.
You should download any Content that you have stored in the Services before your license ends.
Adobe may offer free memberships, offers, and trial memberships in its sole discretion.
If access to the Services or Software is provided to you for free or for trial purposes, such access is governed by these Terms.
After the free or trial access period expires, you may only continue using the Services or Software by enrolling in a paid subscription, if available, or as otherwise permitted by Adobe.
(B) We offer a paid “Talent Search” feature to recruiters and companies looking to discover and hire creative talents.
(A) For any font or font file you upload or submit to the Services and Software (“Creative Cloud Customer Fonts”) you represent and warrant that you have all necessary rights to allow us to use, reproduce, display, host, and distribute the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts through the Services and Software for your use.
Creative Cloud Customer Fonts are not considered Content, as defined in the Terms.
Adobe does not represent or warrant that any such Creative Cloud Customer Fonts will be compatible with or be suitable for use with the Services or Software.
(B) In the event we are informed by a third party or become aware that you do not have the rights to which you warrant in section 3.10(A) (Creative Cloud Customer Fonts) or that your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts violate third-party Intellectual Property Rights, then we may remove the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts from your account, from the Services, or from the Content that uses that Creative Cloud Customer Fonts.
If we remove your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts from your account, the Services, or the Content that uses the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts, the display of your Content may change.
(C) You may revoke our access to your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts and terminate our rights at any time by deleting your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts from the Service.
(D) Upon any termination or closure of your account, we reserve the right to delete your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts.
Some copies of your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts may be retained as part of our routine backups.
(E) We may collect information connected to your use of the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts, such as names of the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts that you upload and how you use the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts.
Some third- party terms that may be applicable to your use of the Services and Software are available.
Access to third- party services and software is provided for convenience only, and Adobe has no responsibility for such third- party services and software.
4.2 Licenses to Your Content in Order to Operate the Services and Software.
Solely for the purposes of operating or improving the Services and Software, when you upload Content to the Services or Software, you grant us a nonexclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, sublicensable, and transferrable license to use, reproduce, publicly display, distribute, modify (so as to better showcase your Content, for example), publicly perform, and translate the Content.
Some Services and Software may provide features that allow you to Share your Content with other users or to make it public.
If you submit Feedback to us however, then you grant us a non-exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, sublicensable, and transferable license to make, use, sell, have made, offer to sell, import, export, reproduce, publicly display, distribute, modify, and publicly perform the Feedback.
Your account administrator may use your account information to manage your use and access to the Services and Software.
If you are located in a different country from the applicable Adobe entity with which you are transacting (i.e., Adobe Inc. for North American customers and Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited for customers in all other countries), your payments will be made to a foreign entity.
You authorize us to store your payment method and use it in connection with your use of the Services and Software as described in your Subscription and Cancellation Terms.
You authorize us to continue billing your account with the updated information that we obtain.
By uploading your Content to the Services or Software, you agree that you have: (A) all necessary licenses and permissions to use and Share your Content; and (B) the rights necessary to grant the licenses in the Terms.
You will indemnify us and our subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, agents, employees, partners, and licensors from any claim, demand, loss, or damage, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of or related to your Content, Creative Cloud Customer Fonts, your use of the Services or Software (as applicable), or your violation of the Terms.
Nothing in the Terms limits or excludes our liability for gross negligence, intentional misconduct of Adobe or its employees, death, or personal injury.
10.2 Our total liability in any matter arising out of or related to the Terms is limited to the greater of (A) US $100; or (B) the aggregate amount that you paid for access to the Services and Software during the three-month period preceding the event giving rise to the liability.
10.4 These Terms set forth the entire liability of Adobe and its affiliates as well as your exclusive remedy with respect to access and use of the Services and Software.
The Services and Software, and your use of them, are subject to laws, restrictions, and regulations of the United States and other jurisdictions that (A) govern the import, export, and use of the Services and Software; and (B) may prohibit us from providing the Services and Software to you without notice.
We may modify, update, or discontinue the Services or Software (including any portions or features) at any time, without liability to you or anyone else.
If we discontinue the Services or Software in its entirety, we will use reasonable commercial efforts to allow you to transition your Content, and we may provide you with a pro rata refund for any unused fees for that Service or Software that you prepaid.
If you are a U.S. government entity, or if the Terms become subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), then, the Services and Software, provided under the Terms are “Commercial Item(s),” as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R.
§227.7202-1 through §227.7202-4, as applicable, the Commercial Computer Software and Commercial Computer Software Documentation are being licensed to U.S. Federal Government End Users (A) only as Commercial Items; and (B) with only those rights as are granted to all other end users pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Terms.
Adobe Inc.: 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704 Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited: 4-6 Riverwalk, City West Business Campus, Saggart, Dublin 24 Adobe General Terms of Use-en US-20200416 _ _ _ _ _