During this period, we have continued to earn the trust of our customers, especially our prime members who have increased their annual purchases and their use of prime benefits over the last 20 months.
And AWS has seen a re-exceleration of revenue growth, as customers have expanded their commitment to the cloud and selected AWS as their cloud partner.
In addition, we have a nearly $1 billion year-over-year increase in Q4 for spend to support our digital media content efforts, including video, music, and games.
We are excited to add this content to our Prime benefits and increase the value of our Prime Membership.
Last but certainly not least, Amazon advertising continues to grow quickly, representing the significant majority of other revenue, which grew 49% year-to-year in Q3.
We're seeing strong adoption across Amazon vendors, sellers, and authors, as well as brands that don't sell in our store, particularly as we've built out our streaming TV offerings.
The team also recently hosted Unbox 2021, our annual conference for advertisers and brands, where we shared some of our newest solutions to help companies connect with their customers, measure the impact of their advertising, and grow their businesses.
So it just opens up more ways for us to serve our customers, especially our prime customers.
So those are all important investments, but they start as an investment and they, you know, we build over time and we frontload a lot of prime benefits in those countries, especially things like video.
We find video is a really strong attractor of customers and it's a gateway to prime in a lot of those countries.
But we like what we see and we see the actual, the hours watched in the percent of prime members who watch video is actually higher in a lot of the new countries that we're getting into.
Last year we, as we look back, we used Prime Day to pull a lot of holiday shopping forward and people knew that delivery capacity across all, you know, retailers were going to be tight.
There's a lot of extensions of contracts and long-term commitments, which are great for our business and great for customers.
We looked at new products and services like grocery and video and music and the list is long.
It's tied directly to happy customers and customers who are engaged in buying things.
And the goal around this is really raise the bar for what customers can expect with this omnichannel experience.
Just really eliminates again, one of those things that people may not realize is such a hassle or a deterrent to shopping, a waiting line and eliminating something that's really been positively received by customers as they use that technology.
And I'd say with these technologies too, there's opportunities beyond the Amazon physical store footprints that I mentioned, you're starting to see just walk out going in sports and kind of a large arena type environments in Amazon one.
So look for us to keep iterating on those and finding other new innovative ways for customers to enjoy a unique shopping experience.
There's the increase cost in digital content, combination of video, games, music, on a bull.
Four billion of the items you mentioned, a billion higher content, marketing costs.
First, you mentioned growing customers use the Prime more original program and coming of the services you offer continuing to expand.
Do you see this demand with some content and service and having expanded to a point where a price increase for the Prime subscription begins to make sense?
We think it's a real step up in options and quality and volume for our customers globally on the video side.
I have nothing to discuss or announce around Prime price increases.
And that's the sponsored activity that we're able to offer up to customers, continuing to find ways to just measure that information and be able to surface it credibly and quickly and prove on that for advertisers out there.
I point to a lot of the excitement in the video advertising area.
And I think just the technology we're able to develop some of the relationships that we've been able to foster with things like live sports, the opportunities with the fire TV device and the video community and where we can reach folks through those areas is really exciting.
But if you step back I think you know look we've said for a while now that you know gaming is obviously one of the fastest growing industries in the entertainment space and we find and see kind of a number of different ways to be able to offer folks a variety of services.
So we develop and publish games for customers through Amazon games which develop that new world.
We're also you know leveraging the the Amazon flywheel offering some exclusive and free content as part of prime gaming so it's part of prime benefits.
So again kind of to my point about a lot of really interesting ideas when we're talking about video and the advertising space it's a lot of different areas that can interrelate serve different communities within within the gaming area and so we're going to keep working on that keep building and listening to customers on other games we've launched and keep pushing forward with an exciting sleep in the future.
We like our model you know rapidly evolving space and I've a super customer obsessed but we also are competitive aware we like the business that we have we have over 170,000 products that customers prime customers can get within two hours at from Amazon fresh whole foods market and other stores that participate with us in over 5,000 cities and towns so we're well in our way to providing ultra fast delivery for things that require ultra fast or things like groceries and others.
I'm the advertising business I'm curious given some of the concerns in the supply chain.
No we're actually again we're seeing strong growth you know obviously prime day is always a really great advertising event as well and then you saw a little bit of that in Q2 when we had prime day in Q2 this year we're lapping prime day from Q4 of last year so there might be comparable issues but as far as the strength of the offering and the differential the growth of the advertising business versus the unit growth we think we're really resonating with advertisers we're given new products new ways to advertise new ways to highlight their brands this resonating with sellers as well for the same reasons and we feel it's additive to the customer experience it helps customers find curated selection and also see brands that they may not otherwise seen.