We also announced a $175 million+ economic opportunity package to support Black business owners, startup founders, job seekers and developers, in addition to YouTube’s $100 million fund to amplify Black creators and artists.
virtualshareholdermeeting.com/GOOGL21 and entering the 16-digit control number included in the Notice, voting instruction form, or proxy card All others may view the Annual Meeting through our Investor Relations YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/c/AlphabetIR.
We will also make the Annual Meeting viewable to anyone interested through our Investor Relations YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/c/AlphabetIR.
He is responsible for Google Search, Assistant, President, Geo, Ads, Commerce, and Payments products.
Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, Ads, from October 2018 to June 2020, and Google as Vice President, Apps, from May 2014 to October 2018.
Prior to joining Google in March 2012, Prabhakar founded and led Yahoo!
Since joining Google in 2006, he has led Google’s advocacy on competition, content, copyright, and privacy.
We provide updates on our efforts through our Investor Relations website at https://abc.xyz/investor/, our Annual Report, and our Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/.
YouTube’s Community Guidelines covering what is allowed on YouTube, are available at www.youtube.com/about/policies/#community-guidelines.
By using a combination of smart detection technology and highly trained human reviewers, YouTube has been able to enforce its policies more and more quickly.
We also release a quarterly enforcement report, which includes information on channel removals, removal of comments, the policy reasons for removal, and most recently, data on appeals (transparencyreport.google.com/youtube-policy/removals).
• Competition: We believe our products like Search, Gmail, and Maps help users every day.
We have set forth our approach to competition in the U.S., including facts about Google’s business, our competition, latest relevant news, and other helpful links, at https://blog.
We provide information on competition in Europe’s digital markets, including our efforts to promote modern rules that encourage competition without harming product quality or stifling innovation, at https://blog.google/EU-digital-markets#regulation.
Since its inception, Google has been managed with a focus on the long term.
Nearly two billion people use YouTube monthly, with YouTube’s recommendation algorithm driving approximately 70 percent of viewing.
YouTube launched a 100 million dollar fund for black creators, yet the New York Times reports YouTube has been “successfully weaponized by racists...to undermine Black Lives Matter.” The company faces a class action lawsuit from black creators alleging Alphabet violated laws intended to prevent racial discrimination.
The Christchurch terrorist attack in New Zealand, broadcast on YouTube, led to a global call to limit the spread of extremist content.
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said: “We cannot simply sit back and accept that these platforms just exist and that what is said on them is not the responsibility of the place where they are published.” Yet, 2020 research found YouTube radicalized viewers by steering them to videos espousing increasingly extremist ideologies.
In 2019, Google was fined a record 170 million dollars by the Federal Trade Commission and New York Attorney General Letitia James over YouTube’s violation of children’s privacy.
Now, a 3 billion dollar United Kingdom lawsuit alleges YouTube has “systematically broken [privacy] laws by harvesting children’s data.” As fiduciaries, our Board is responsible for stewardship of business performance and long term strategic planning, in light of risk factors like widespread violations of human and civil rights.
Google states its Transparency Reports “provide a glimpse at the wide range of content removal requests that we receive, but they are not comprehensive.” In 2018, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on freedom of expression’s report stated: “the authoritative global standard for ensuring freedom of expression on [companies’] platforms is human rights law, not the varying laws of States or their own private interests, and [companies] should re- evaluate their content standards accordingly.” Proponents suggest the report assess the feasibility of: • Incorporating into Google’s Transparency Report the substantive content of government requests, including whether the request was met, and criteria used to guide decisions; • Notifying customers of content affected by government requests.
ALPHABET • 2021 PROXY STATEMENT 67 Back to Contents 1 2 3 4 5 Corporate Director and Audit Management Questions and Governance Executive Matters and Stockholder Answers Compensation Proposals We also continue to innovate around product-specific transparency with YouTube’s industry-leading transparency reporting on how it enforces the Community Guidelines (https://www.youtube.com/about/policies/#community-guidelines).
This combination of smart detection technology and highly-trained human reviewers has enabled YouTube to consistently enforce policies with increasing speed.
That is why in April 2018 we launched a quarterly YouTube Community Guidelines Enforcement Report (https:// transparencyreport.google.com/youtube- policy/removals).
As part of this ongoing commitment to transparency, we expanded the report to include additional data like channel removals, the number of comments removed, the policy reason why a video or channel was removed – and most recently, appeals data.
Google already provides public information on our core charitable initiatives at https://www.google.org.
Criticism of Google has focused on its use of its monopoly over internet search and its access to user data to eliminate competitors not only in search but also in adjacent areas such as online shopping.1 A September 2020 survey found that 58% of Americans are not “confident they are getting objective and unbiased search results when using an online platform to shop or search;” 85% are very or somewhat concerned about the amount of data online platforms store about them.2 The House Judiciary Committee’s Antitrust Subcommittee began investigating competition in digital markets in 2019, focusing on Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google.
The report found that Google leveraged its search monopoly to “boost Google’s own inferior vertical offerings” and concluded that “Google increasingly functions as an ecosystem of interlocking monopolies.”3 In October 2020, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and 11 state attorneys general sued Google, alleging that the company maintained monopolies in “general search services, search advertising, and general search text advertising” through anticompetitive exclusionary agreements with device makers, carriers and browser developers to make Google the default search engine and prohibit dealing with Google’s competitors.
Attorneys general that did not join the DOJ’s suit are also investigating Google.4 In 2019, the European Union fined Google $1.7 billion for “abusive practices in online advertising.”5 Backlash against anticompetitive practices can increase pressure for new regulation.
Additionally, the company periodically posts updates and commentary about the company’s new and ongoing legal matters, including competition legal matters, on Google’s Public Policy blog.
• In June 2020, YouTube announced a multi-year $100 million fund to amplify and develop the voices of Black creators and artists and their stories.
Internationally, Google has formed partnerships with NGOs and financial institutions around the world that are helping us distribute $75 million to small businesses outside of the U.S. • In January 2021, Alphabet pledged an additional $150 million to promote COVID-19 vaccine education and equitable access.
It also released an Economic Impact Report showing that Google helped provide $426 billion of economic activity for more than 2 million businesses, nonprofits, publishers, creators and developers in 2020.
For your convenience, we are pleased to offer a live webcast of the Annual Meeting through our Investor Relations YouTube channel at https://www.youtube.com/c/AlphabetIR.