D U e p li d ve a r t i e ng l o to c M at a i d o is n on 53719 All Search Amazon EN A He c l c lo o , s u ig n n t i & n Lists R & e O tu r rn d s ers 0 All Holiday Gifts Medical Care Luxury Best Sellers Amazon Basics Today's Deals Books New Releases Registry Groceries Help & Customer Service ‹ All Help Topics Find more solutions Amazon Prime Amazon Prime Benefits Amazon Prime Amazon Prime Shipping Plan Shipping and Delivery › Amazon Prime › About Prime Day Sign Up for the Amazon Amazon Prime Terms & Conditions Prime Free Trial Share Your Amazon Prime Last updated May 11, 2021 Benefits Prime Membership Plans Comparison Welcome to the terms and conditions ("Terms") for Amazon Prime.
These Terms are between Pause Your Amazon Prime you and Amazon.com Services LLC and/or its affiliates ("Amazon.com" or "Us") and govern our Membership respective rights and obligations.
Please note that your use of the Amazon.com website and Cancel Your Amazon Prime Prime membership are also governed by the agreements listed and linked to below, as well as all Membership other applicable terms, conditions, limitations, and requirements on the Amazon.com website, all of which (as changed over time) are incorporated into these Terms.
If you sign up for a Prime The Amazon Prime membership, you accept these terms, conditions, limitations and requirements.
Membership Fee Switch Amazon Prime Conditions of Use Membership Amazon.com Privacy Notice Use Buy Now with Amazon Amazon Video Terms of Use Prime Amazon Music Terms of Use Using a Promotional Code Amazon Photos Terms of Use for Amazon Prime Kindle Store Terms of Use Subscribe to Amazon Prime via an Approved Partner Membership Cancellation (Free, SFR) Amazon Prime Terms & If you signed-up for your Prime membership directly through us, you may cancel your Prime Conditions membership any time by visiting Your Account and adjusting your membership settings.
If you cancel within 3 business days of signing up for or converting from a free trial to a paid Amazon Prime Referral membership, we will refund your full membership fee; provided that we may charge you (or Program Terms and withhold from your refund) the value of Prime benefits used by you and your account during this Conditions 3-business day period.
Grubhub+ with Amazon Prime Shipping Benefits and Eligible Purchases Amazon Prime Fuel Savings Offer Prime shipping benefits depend upon inventory availability, order deadlines, and in some cases Amazon Prime in Colombia the shipping address.
They are limited to certain products sold by Amazon.com (or third-party sellers participating in Prime) on the Amazon.com website and to certain products on third-party Amazon Prime in Colombia - websites that offer Prime shipping benefits.
Products eligible for Prime will be designated as Membership Plans such on their product pages.
Changing or combining orders, or changing Add to Delivery with Amazon your shipping address, speed, or preferences might affect Prime eligibility.
Certain purchases Prime may only be entitled to Standard Shipping because of their size, weight, and other shipping characteristics.
The Prime section of our Help pages provides information about eligible items, shipping cost, shipping Your Orders speed, and shipping destinations.
Track or cancel orders Returns & Refunds Other Benefits and Supplemental Memberships Exchange or return items Click here for information about additional Prime benefits.
We also offer Prime members Manage Prime supplemental memberships, which are subject to these Terms, require you to be a Prime Cancel or view member, and may have additional fees and terms.
As used in these Terms, “Prime” applies to all benefits supplemental memberships.
Carrier Info We may send you email and other communications related to Prime and your Prime Shipping carrier membership (regardless of any settings or preferences related to your Amazon account).
information You may not transfer or assign your Prime membership or any Prime benefits, including Account Settings Change email or promotion codes for Prime memberships or benefits, except as allowed in these terms.
password Prime members are not permitted to purchase products for the purpose of resale, rental, or to ship to their customers or potential customers using Prime benefits.
Some Prime benefits may require certain purchase thresholds, have quantity or shipping address limitations, or require members to meet specified criteria in order to access them.
From time to time, Amazon may choose in its sole discretion to add or remove Prime membership benefits.
Fees and Renewal The membership fee for Prime is stated in the Prime section of our Help pages.
The Prime membership fee is non-refundable except as expressly set forth in these Terms.
Taxes may apply on either or both of the membership fee and the reduced shipping charges for Prime.
If you sign up for your Prime membership through us and are billed by us, then the billing terms described below will apply to your membership.
UNLESS YOU NOTIFY US BEFORE A CHARGE THAT YOU WANT TO CANCEL OR DO NOT WANT TO AUTO RENEW, YOU UNDERSTAND YOUR PRIME MEMBERSHIP WILL AUTOMATICALLY CONTINUE AND YOU AUTHORIZE US (WITHOUT NOTICE TO YOU, UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW) TO COLLECT THE THEN-APPLICABLE MEMBERSHIP FEE AND ANY TAXES, USING ANY ELIGIBLE PAYMENT METHOD WE HAVE ON RECORD FOR YOU.
If you signed up for your Prime membership through a third party and are not billed directly by us, then the billing terms provided by the third party will apply to your membership.
If you sign up for a qualification-based Prime membership (including but not limited to Prime for Young Adults and Prime for qualifying EBT and government assistance recipients), you will receive certain Prime benefits for the reduced rate specified in the Prime section of our Help page.
To sign up for and use a qualification-based Prime membership, you must meet the eligibility conditions described on the applicable enrollment page and provide any required documentation.
Agreement Changes We may in our discretion change these Terms, Amazon.com's Conditions of Use and Privacy Notice, or any aspect of Prime membership, without notice to you.
Termination by Us We may terminate your Prime membership at our discretion without notice.
THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY WILL APPLY TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW AND WILL SURVIVE CANCELLATION OR TERMINATION OF YOUR PRIME MEMBERSHIP.