On the consumer side, we welcome millions of new prime members in both the United States and international during the quarter.
An AWS subcontinuation of the strong usage and revenue growth we've seen throughout 2021.
We're excited to continue innovating in areas like sponsored ads, streaming video and measurement.
This then lowers stress on the hardware and extends the useful life both for the assets that we use to support AWS's external customers as well as those used to support our own internal Amazon businesses.
And finally, we will increase the price of prime in the United States in Q1.
In recent years, we've added more product selection available with fast free unlimited shipping, more exclusive deals and discounts, and more high quality entertainment, including the price of $1 billion.
And we have a lot of quality entertainment, including TV movies, music, and books.
Since 2018, prime video has tripled the number of Amazon originals.
And members have saved billions of dollars shopping on prime days.
This is all on top of new program benefits like prescription savings and fast free delivery from Amazon Pharmacy, and the continually growing Amazon music catalog for prime members, as well as prime reading and prime gaming.
With the continued expansion of prime member benefits, in the increased member usage that we've seen, as well as the rise in wages and transportation cost, Amazon will increase the price of a prime membership in the United States, with the monthly price going from $12.99 to $14.99, and the annual membership going from $119 to $139.
For current prime members, the new price will apply after March 25th on the date of their next renewal.
You tick them off there, the adoption of digital benefits, the use of grocery and how valuable that's become to customers.
Not to mention the acceleration of companies going to the cloud, the ability to double our fulfillment capacity over that time period, including making major strides in our Amazon logistics sets us up well for the future.
There's, you know, fees in some cases for three P services and prime, as we just mentioned, is going up advertising is certainly added a layer of contribution of the last few years.
So there's there's a we want to have capacity to have a healthy retail and an FBA business because that feels prime and one data delivery and two data delivery and same data livery so that's very important.
You know, I think it's a combination of things we've been adding resources and sales and marketing over the last few years and that is starting to pay off.
First time and prime day had carries a lot I can't scale it for you but you know there's a lot of advertising tied to prime day obviously so in that moves quarters it generally has an impact on the.
Success we're having with with sellers and vendors and making that a useful product for customers.
You know that results in building more relevancy and better engaging experiences and again the more we can interact with the advertisers the customers and learn and have.
The sponsor dad space but you know we've talked about video advertising is is certainly a great opportunity and as we've got properties like you know fire TV.
Delivering good recommendations to customers and helpful when they're making their purchase decisions and giving them information around that that in turn of course helps.
Helps the advertisers as well and have a great result so I think that's one area that works out about in a longer term.
You know demand side platform opportunities with Amazon's DSP is is something that we're continuing to work on and refine and again focus on the customer as we always do.
You know Brian you mentioned the efficiency broadcast of change the night football and one of the reasons for the higher price increase for prime.
For prime members to make the prime membership more valuable as well as international sports we had one of the highest rated games in the q4 with.
Be beneficial and valuable to prime prime offering we're still probably early on in that we've had obviously success with.