In our press release slides accompanying this webcast and our filings with the SEC each of which is posted on our IR website.
Prime members also continue to shop with greater frequency and across more categories than before the pandemic.
These trends have also extended to Prime's digital benefits.
Over the past 12 months, Prime Video streaming hours were up over 70% year over year.
Amazon Studio had its best award season yet, and Prime members can look forward to a strong slate of upcoming original series and films featuring an impressive group of diverse talent and creators.
Hours watched on Twitch nearly doubled year over year in the first quarter, and we now average more than 35 million daily visitors.
Another popular benefit of Prime membership is Prime Day.
Prime Day is also a great opportunity for our selling partners to reach more customers, and we'll make supporting small businesses a big focus again this year.
We'll have more to share on Prime Day, including the event dates, a bit later this quarter.
So it's a great way for those folks to access the delivery technology and the package volumes we have and it's happening in the network.
And we're really pleased that we've been able to show our value to those customers, not only with our shipments and our ability to deliver and get them what they need to survive in homes and in place during the pandemic, but also the strength that we've seen in the digital offering and the adoption of video music, our devices.
Amazon Fresh became free prime benefit, as you know, in the late part of 2019.
And we've seen rapid adoption of the video, create a format for sponsored brands among other things.
The question is just want to follow up there on Prime Day, Brian.
And then secondly, I think in your release, you talk about 175 million prime members watching video.
Any update you could provide on content spending and how you think about prime videos or driver for overall Amazon.
Just in terms of strategy, I think it's probably nothing newer surprising, but just to reiterate it, we look at Prime Video as a component of the broader Prime membership and making sure it's driving adoption and retention as it is.
If they significant acquisition channel in Prime countries, and we look at it and see the members who watch video have higher free trial conversion rates, higher renewal rates, higher overall engagement.
And there's great examples of places like Brazil where you launch with the video only subscription, for example, that preceded the broader Prime membership with shipping components.
Just in terms of spend, you know, we just say, you know, we continue to, you know, expect to grow that on an absolute basis and invest in that, beyond, you know, original content.
You guys have been such a great job building out your network and providing consumers with access to so many categories of goods.
We're very excited about the adoption of our prime benefits pretty much across the board, especially with the digital benefits.
And we're very excited about getting that type of content to our prime members quicker.
And some of that comes with responsibility that customers have higher and higher expectations for the capabilities, something like Alexa.
And I think, you know, if we just look back over the last 12 months and what's been going on, the role that, you know, customer usage is played with Alexa and the behavior there.
We're seeing customers using Alexa to help stay healthy.
So using our devices and the services and the Alexa enabled services for things like educational apps.