Our teams worked hard to offer low prices and secure millions of deals for customers in Q4, including our first-ever Prime Early Access Sale in October, and the more traditional Thanksgiving to Cyber Monday Holiday Weekend.
Prime membership continues to be a great value for our customers, and improving our Prime benefits is a continuous part of our investment strategy.
Along with competitive pricing, broad selection, and faster delivery speed, we've seen Prime members respond to our expanding entertainment offerings.
In aggregate, we invested approximately $7 billion in 2022 across Amazon originals, live sports, and licensed third-party video content included with Prime.
As a reminder, these digital video content costs are included in cost of sales on our income statement.
We regularly evaluate their turn on the spend and continue to be encouraged by what we see, as video has proven to be a strong driver of Prime member engagement and new Prime member acquisition.
Some of the key benefits of being in the cloud compared to managing your own data center are the ability to handle large demand swings and to optimize costs relatively quickly, especially during times of economic uncertainty.
You know, we believe that continuing to get products to customers faster makes customers happier.
And then just, you know, the customer experience improvements that we're working all the time, you know, whether it's adding buy with prime that allows prime users to use their prime benefits on other websites than just Amazon or adding our expats in the healthcare space where our prime customers for $5 a month and get all their revenue.
And they're going to be a lot of people who continue to buy in physical stores, but you're going to also see a hybrid of those where people pick out what they want online and pick it up in stores or people are in stores.
And I think that's a very, you know, it's a premium product, but it's a significant business.
You see it with virtually every enterprise and we're being very thoughtful about streaming our costs as well.
And it's one of the advantages that we've talked about since we launched AWS in 2006 of the cloud, which is that you when it turns out you have a lot more demand than you anticipated.
It's something you can't do on premises, which is one of the many reasons why the cloud is an a bus or a very effective for customers.
Maybe a bigger, bigger high level question here just around prime member engagement and just seeing their third party sellers as growth accelerating in the quarter.
Talk to us a little bit more, maybe Andy and Brian just around how engagement involving here for prime members and really how this has grown wallet share over time.
You know, I would say that, you know, the prime membership is remains strong and so has the dollars purchase, Pope, prime member, it varies a bit by geography, but you know, in general, if you step back, you know, we had some very large video properties that we had launched last year.
There's a football and more of the brings rings of power, both of them what them had record signups for prime membership.
And we know that again, investments like that will help with not only new member or new prime member acquisition, but also retention and we see a drink to wreck link between that type of engagement and higher purchases of every day and the products on our Amazon website.
So, so you know, the health of prime is is very strong as Andy mentioned earlier, we are continuing to work to get our speed of delivery up to get more one day shipments.
People came prime members and others came down the zone to do their shopping.
Just sad really one piece here, which is just if you step back and think about a lot of subscription programs, you know, there are a number of them that are, you know, $14, $15 a month, really for entertainment content, which is more than what prime is today.
Do you think about the value of prime, which is less than what I just mentioned where you get the entertainment content on the prime video side and you get the shipping benefit, the fast shipping benefit, you can't find elsewhere and you get the music benefit, you get the prime gaming benefit and you get the photos benefit and you get the buy with prime capability, use your prime subscription websites, you know, beyond just Amazon and some of the grocery benefits that we provide.
And our X pass like we just launched you know to get a number of medications, people take regularly for $5 a month and limited that is remarkable that you just don't find elsewhere and we will continue to add things to prime and continue to experiment with lots of different features and benefits, but it's still early days and as we continue to make the service better and better and fully featured, we see people continuing to spend more at Amazon across our various areas.
So as you've been the CEO and it looks like there's a bit of a bit of appeal back on devices appeal back on physical stores, except for groceries and it may be a little bit more of a lean in on on health and I'm not quite sure what you're doing with entertainment, you know, content spend like that.
And I think the quickest way to save money is to get to the cloud.
Quite frankly, so there's a lot of, you know, long term positive in tough economic times, so that in 2020 when volumes for customers shifted very quickly, it led to a resurgence after that in probably acceleration of people's journey to the cloud.
But doing so without having to give up our ability to invest in the key long term strategic investments that we think could change broad customer experiences and change Amazon over time.
You know, when we launch something like buy with prime, I think people see that, you know, is more predictable.
Yeah, I think that while we've gone slower in some devices things, we still, you know, when we make the answers to those four questions, we are very enthusiastic about our investments in streaming entertainment devices.