We recently hosted Amazon Accelerate, our US conference for selling partners, where we introduced new tools, including new email marketing capabilities, free-to-use shipping software that offers discounted shipping rates, and new features and analytics to help sellers better understand and act on conversion-driving content.
Prime members purchased more than 300 million items worldwide, making it the biggest prime day net sales event in Amazon's history, as a reminder, prime day occurred in the second quarter of 2021.
We also debuted the two largest prime video releases ever.
In the first two months since its launch, Rings of Power has driven more prime signups globally than any other Amazon original.
Another impact to operating income was the step up in prime video content and marketing costs in Q3.
We're tens of millions of Prime members shopped and ordered more than 100 million items from Amazon selling partners.
So continue to drive value for customers with new products, new services, and lately also additional ways for them to manage their budgets and optimize and what is shaping up as a tough economy.
All as headwinds the business offset by increasing productivity and efficiencies in our data centers which drive profitability.
And prime day is always a bit of, you know, has lesser profitability, because there's a lot of deals and it's a bit of margin from prime day in both North America and international.
And again, we sell a lot of devices during our prime day events.
So all really good things for the customer and for Amazon long term.
Again, we think the benefit of cloud computing is really showing up right now because we allow customers to turn what can normally be a fixed expense into a variable expense.
And the piece or they, excuse me, the primarily access sale, I think create a great value for consumers allowed them to get a jump on some of their purchases for the holiday and also just find some great deals.
So, you know, we have a lot of advantages that we feel that will help both consumers and also our partners like sellers and advertisers.
Primarily, and mostly in our productivity, we had a lot of, you know, with the prime day and the preparation for the primarily access event.