In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers, and employees.
Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores.
We also manufacture and sell electronic devices, including Kindle, Fire tablet, Fire TV, Echo, Ring, Blink, and eero, and we develop and produce media content.
We seek to offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easy-to-use functionality, and timely customer service.
In addition, we offer subscription services such as Amazon Prime, a membership program that includes fast, free shipping on tens of millions of items, access to award-winning movies and series, and other benefits.
Content Creators We offer programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians, filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content.
3 Table of Contents Competition Our businesses encompass a large variety of product types, service offerings, and delivery channels.
The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser-known businesses to compete against us.
4 Table of Contents Available Information Our investor relations website is amazon.com/ir and we encourage investors to use it as a way of easily finding information about us.
In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, digital content, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition.
The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known businesses to compete against us.
These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if customers of these offerings experience, or are otherwise impacted by, service disruptions, delays, setbacks, or failures or quality issues.
The People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’s and its affiliates’ businesses and operations in country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation of the internet, IT infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products and services.
Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content.
Breach or malfunctioning of the digital rights management technology that we use could subject us to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in our service.
As we continue to add fulfillment and data center capability or add new businesses with different requirements, our fulfillment and data center networks become increasingly complex and operating them becomes more challenging.
We use third-party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.
The data include confidential, proprietary, and business and personal information that we collect, process, store, and transmit as part of our business, including on behalf of third parties.
The products offered through our stores include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale and products offered by third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices and produce media content.
We also offer other services such as compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, advertising, publishing, and digital content subscriptions.
We believe that advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost of processing power, data storage and analytics, improved wireless connectivity, and the practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, will continue to improve users’ experience on the internet and increase its ubiquity in people’s lives.
We are also investing in initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices as well as other initiatives including the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, social and online advertising, third-party customer referrals, television advertising, and other initiatives.
To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs.
While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other shipping offers are not included in sales and marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely.
In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers, and employees.
We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience.
We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their businesses, sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders using our services, and programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians, filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content.
In addition, we provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
43 Table of Contents Advertising services - We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including digital video, audiobooks, digital music, e-books, and other non-AWS subscription services.
Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation.
Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services.
Revenue from such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period.
Other - Other revenue includes sales related to various other offerings, such as certain licensing and distribution of video content, health care services, and shipping services, and our co-branded credit card agreements.
Revenue is recognized when content is licensed or distributed and as or when services are performed.
Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers’ programs.
Digital Video and Music Content We obtain video content, inclusive of episodic television and movies, and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions including both fixed and variable payment schedules.
When the license fee for a specific video or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available to us, we recognize an asset and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed.
We also develop original video content for which the production costs are capitalized and amortized to “Cost of sales” predominantly on an accelerated basis that follows the estimated viewing patterns associated with the content.
The weighted average remaining life of our capitalized video content is 3.5 years.
We review usage and viewing patterns impacting the amortization of capitalized video content on an ongoing basis and reflect any changes prospectively.
Our produced and licensed video content is primarily monetized together as a unit, referred to as a film group, in each major geography where we offer Amazon Prime memberships.
The total capitalized costs of video, which is primarily released content, and music as of December 31, 2022 and 2023 were $16.7 billion and $17.4 billion.
Total video and music expense includes licensing and production costs associated with content offered within Amazon Prime memberships, and costs associated with digital subscriptions and sold or rented content.
We also have a commercial arrangement primarily for the provision of AWS cloud services, which includes the use of AWS chips.
Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships.
(2) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets, and certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores.
(3) Includes asset retirement obligations, liabilities associated with digital media content agreements with initial terms greater than one year, and the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that are under construction.
That complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon has a monopoly in markets for online superstores and marketplace services, and unlawfully maintains those monopolies through anticompetitive practices relating to our pricing policies, advertising practices, the structure of Prime, and promotion of our own products on our website.
In October 2020, Broadband iTV, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon.com Services LLC, and Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas.
The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Amazon Prime Video features and services infringe U.S. Patent Nos.
9,648,388, 10,546,750, and 10,536,751, each entitled “Video-On-Demand Content Delivery System for Providing Video-On- Demand Services to TV 61 Table of Contents Services Subscribers”; 10,028,026, entitled “System for Addressing On-Demand TV Program Content on TV Services Platform of a Digital TV Services Provider”; and 9,973,825, entitled “Dynamic Adjustment of Electronic Program Guide Displays Based on Viewer Preferences for Minimizing Navigation in VOD Program Selection.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages.
In April 2022, Broadband iTV alleged in its damages report that in the event of a finding of liability Amazon could be subject to $166 million to $986 million in damages.
6,701,344, entitled “Distributed Game Environment”; 6,714,966, entitled “Information Delivery Service”; 6,732,147, entitled “Leaving a Broadcast Channel”; 6,829,634, entitled “Broadcasting Network”; and 6,910,069, entitled “Joining a Broadcast Channel.” The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, interest, attorneys’ fees, and costs.
The complaints allege, among other things, that certain Amazon Prime Video services and features of Amazon devices carrying the Prime Video app infringe Nokia’s patents; some of the complaints additionally allege infringement by Freevee, Twitch, and Amazon voice assistants.
We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a physical and digital format, such as books, videos, games, music, and software.
Digital media content subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage rights are included in “Subscription services.” (2) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a store.
(4) Includes sales of advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
(5) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships, as well as digital video, audiobook, digital music, e-book, and other non- AWS subscription services.
(6) Includes sales related to various other offerings, such as certain licensing and distribution of video content, health care services, and shipping services, and our co-branded credit card agreements.