In particular, our sponsored product and brand offerings remain a key driver of growth, as we work with advertisers to help customers make more informed purchase decisions.
In our stores business, we've been very focused on reducing our costs to serve in our fulfillment network.
It's also worth noting that we're still very early in our efforts to find a way to thoughtfully place ads in our broader video, live sports, audio and grocery properties.
But while we've taken several actions to streamline our costs, we've been able to do so while still pursuing the key strategic long term investments that we believe can meaningfully make customers lives better and potentially change what Amazon is.
These are investments both in our larger businesses mentioned earlier, as well as in areas like international expansion in our stores business, large retail market segments in which we're still nascent like grocery and business to business, allowing consumers to use prime off of Amazon and are by with prime program, entertainment, devices, healthcare and our low-earth orbit satellite for the hundreds of millions of households, companies, and government entities that have limited to no connectivity.
They're trying to find ways to save money as most companies are including our own.
I think it's important to remember that customers are pretty explicitly telling us that this is not a cost-cutting effort where we intend on spending less money on technology or on the cloud.
How do you think about the key investment priorities for Echo and Alexa going forward?
And you'll see it in every single one of our businesses stores, advertising devices, entertainment, and devices, which was your specific question is a good example that you know, I think when people often ask us about Alexa, you know, what we often share is that if we were just building a smart speaker, it would be a much smaller investment.
And I think we start from a pretty good spot with Alexa because we have, you know, a couple hundred million endpoints being used across entertainment and shopping and smart home and information and a lot of involvement from third party ecosystem partners.
We have forwardloaded prime benefits in a lot of these countries that ahead of the curve that we saw in North America.
Price selection and convenience are at the core of that.
I'm very happy with the adoption and traffic and new customer acquisition that we're seeing from Prime Video and a lot of their emerging countries as well.
And I talked a little bit about category expansion and international expansion in our stores business and you know, some of the nascent retail market segments that are large for us that we think we can have big businesses in and business to business, our Amazon business entity and grocery and things like pie with prime, which allow our consumers to use their prime benefit and other third party websites beyond Amazon.
And also that merchants converted a higher rate because prime members are able to pay quickly and then get that fast reliable shipping they get from prime.
But we came across one medical where, you know, the digital app is very compelling and you can talk to a medical practitioner by chat or by video conference or if you have to come into a physical facility, they have clinics, you know, around the country and you can get that appointment same day or next day and all those cities, they have relationships with health specialists where you're plugged into their, their ability to get reservations where you can get reservations in a day or two there.
And for businesses and governments to be able to have that coverage to be able to operate much more seamlessly in the various environments in which you have to have a presence, it's a total game changer.