Thereasonsaremany,butstartwiththeprogresswe’vemadeinourfinancialresultsandcustomer experiences,andextendtoourcontinuedinnovationandtheremarkableopportunitiesinfrontof us.
Further,Amazon’soperatingincomeandFreeCashFlow(“FCF”)dramaticallyimproved.Operating incomein2023improved201%YoYfrom$12.2B(anoperatingmarginof 2.4%)to$36.9B(anoperating marginof 6.4%).TrailingTwelveMonthFCFadjustedforequipmentfinanceleasesimprovedfrom-$12.8B in2022to$35.5B(up$48.3B).
InourStoresbusiness,customershaveenthusiasticallyrespondedtoourrelentlessfocusonselection,price, andconvenience.Wecontinuetohavethebroadestretailselection,withhundredsof millionsof products available, tens of millions added last year alone, and several premium brands starting to list on Amazon (e.g.Coach,Victoria’sSecret,PitViper,MarthaStewart,Clinique,Lancôme,andUrbanDecay).
Wealsocontinuetoimprovedeliveryspeeds,breakingmultiplecompanyrecords.In2023,Amazon deliveredatthefastestspeedsevertoPrimemembers,withmorethan7billionitemsarrivingsameornext day,includingmorethan4billionintheU.S.andmorethan2billioninEurope.IntheU.S.,thisresultisthe combinationof twothings.Oneisthebenefitof regionalization,wherewere-architectedthenetworkto storeitemsclosertocustomers.Theotheristheexpansionof same-dayfacilities,wherein2023,weincreased thenumberof itemsdeliveredsamedayorovernightbynearly70%YoY.Aswegetitemstocustomersthis fast,customerschooseAmazontofulfilltheirshoppingneedsmorefrequently,andwecanseetheresultsin variousareasincludinghowfastoureverydayessentialsbusinessisgrowing(over20%YoYinQ42023).
Ourregionalizationeffortshavealsotrimmedtransportationdistances,helpinglowerourcosttoserve.In 2023,forthefirsttimesince2018,wereducedourcosttoserveonaperunitbasisglobally.IntheU.S.alone, costtoservewasdownbymorethan$0.45perunitYoY.Decreasingcosttoserveallowsusbothtoinvest in speed improvements and afford adding more selection at lower Average Selling Prices (“ASPs”).
AlongsideourStoresbusiness,Amazon’sAdvertisingprogressremainsstrong,growing24%YoYfrom $38Bin2022to$47Bin2023,primarilydrivenbyoursponsoredads.We’veaddedSponsoredTVtothis offering, a self-service solution for brands to create campaigns that can appear on up to 30+ streaming TVservices,includingAmazonFreeveeandTwitch,andhavenominimumspend.Recently,we’veexpanded ourstreamingTVadvertisingbyintroducingadsintoPrimeVideoshowsandmovies,wherebrandscan reachover200millionmonthlyviewersinourmostpopularentertainmentofferings,acrosshitmoviesand shows, award-winning Amazon MGM Originals, and live sports like Thursday Night Football.
Streaming TVadvertisingisgrowingquicklyandoff toastrongstart.
),PrimeVideocustomers’engagement withthiscontent,growthinourmarketplaceprograms(throughourthird-partyChannelsprogram,as wellasthebroadselectionof showsandmoviescustomersrentorbuy),andtheadditionof advertisingin PrimeVideo.
Overall,2023wasastrongyear,andI’mgratefultoourcollectiveteamswhodeliveredonbehalf of customers.Theseresultsrepresentalotof invention,collaboration,discipline,execution,andreimagination acrossAmazon.Yet,Ithinkeveryoneof usatAmazonbelievesthatwehavealongwaytogo,ineveryone of ourbusinesses,beforeweexhausthowwecanmakecustomers’livesbetterandeasier,andthereis considerableupsideineachof thebusinessesinwhichwe’reinvesting.
=== Inmyannualletteroverthelastthreeyears,I’vetriedtogiveshareholdersmoreinsightintohowwe’re thinkingaboutthecompany,thebusinesseswe’repursuing,ourfutureopportunities,andwhatmakesus tick.Weoperateinadiversenumberof marketsegments,butwhattiesAmazontogetherisourjointmission tomakecustomers’livesbetterandeasiereveryday.Thisistrueacrosseverycustomersegmentweserve (consumers, sellers, brands, developers, enterprises, and creators).
At our best, we’re not just customer obsessed,butalsoinventive,thinkingseveralyearsout,learninglikecrazy,scrappy,deliveringquickly,and operatingliketheworld’sbiggeststart-up.
Thiscouplingwasfurtherhighlightedbyaheavyweightmechanismweusedtooperatecalled“NPI.”Any newinitiativerequiringworkfrommultipleinternalteamshadtobereviewedbythisNPIcabalwhereeach teamwouldcommunicatehowmanypeople-weekstheirworkwouldtake.Thisbottleneckconstrained whatweaccomplished,frustratedtheheckoutof us,andinspiredustoeradicateitbyrefactoringthese ecommercecomponentsintotrueprimitiveserviceswithwell-documented,stableAPIsthatenabledour builderstouseeachother’sserviceswithoutanycoordinationtax.
But, one of the lesser-recognized beneficiaries was Amazon’s own consumer businesses, which innovated at dramatic speed across retail, advertising, devices (e.g.
It’s why we’ve built Amazon SageMaker,amanaged,end-to-endservicethat’sbeenagamechangerfordevelopersinpreparingtheirdata forAI,managingexperiments,trainingmodelsfaster(e.g.PerplexityAItrainsmodels40%fasterin SageMaker),loweringinferencelatency(e.g.Workdayhasreducedinferencelatencyby80%withSageMaker), andimprovingdeveloperproductivity(e.g.NatWestreduceditstime-to-valueforAIfrom12-18monthsto undersevenmonthsusingSageMaker).
TherehasneverbeenatimeinAmazon’shistorywherewe’vefeltthereissomuchopportunitytomakeour customers’livesbetterandeasier.We’reincrediblyexcitedaboutwhat’spossible,focusedoninventingthe future,andlookforwardtoworkingtogethertomakeitso.
Wehaveawindowof opportunityaslargerplayersmarshaltheresourcestopursuetheonlineopportunity and as customers, new to purchasing online, are receptive to forming new relationships.
The competitive landscapehascontinuedtoevolveatafastpace.Manylargeplayershavemovedonlinewithcredibleofferings andhavedevotedsubstantialenergyandresourcestobuildingawareness,traffic,andsales.Ourgoalistomove quicklytosolidifyandextendourcurrentpositionwhilewebegintopursuetheonlinecommerceopportunities inotherareas.Weseesubstantialopportunityinthelargemarketswearetargeting.Thisstrategyisnotwithout risk:itrequiresseriousinvestmentandcrispexecutionagainstestablishedfranchiseleaders.
ObsessOverCustomers Fromthebeginning,ourfocushasbeenonofferingourcustomerscompellingvalue.Werealizedthatthe Webwas,andstillis,theWorldWideWait.Therefore,wesetouttooffercustomerssomethingtheysimply couldnotgetanyotherway,andbeganservingthemwithbooks.Webroughtthemmuchmoreselectionthan waspossibleinaphysicalstore(ourstorewouldnowoccupy6footballfields),andpresenteditinauseful,easy- to-search, and easy-to-browse format in a store open 365 days a year, 24 hours a day.
We maintained a dogged focusonimprovingtheshoppingexperience,andin1997substantiallyenhancedourstore.Wenowoffer customers gift certificates, 1-ClickSM shopping, and vastly more reviews, content, browsing options, and recommendationfeatures.Wedramaticallyloweredprices,furtherincreasingcustomervalue.Wordof mouth remainsthemostpowerfulcustomeracquisitiontoolwehave,andwearegratefulforthetrustourcustomers haveplacedinus.Repeatpurchasesandwordof mouthhavecombinedtomakeAmazon.comthemarketleader inonlinebookselling.
Bymanymeasures,Amazon.comcamealongwayin1997: • Salesgrewfrom$15.7millionin1996to$147.8million–an838%increase.
Infrastructure During1997,weworkedhardtoexpandourbusinessinfrastructuretosupportthesegreatlyincreased traffic,sales,andservicelevels: • Amazon.com’semployeebasegrewfrom158to614,andwesignificantlystrengthenedour managementteam.
Thisrequiressustainedinvestmentinsystemsandinfrastructuretosupportoutstandingcustomerconvenience, selection, and service while we grow.
We are planning to add music to our product offering, and over time we believe that other products may be prudent investments.
However, as we’ve long said, online bookselling, and online commerce in general, should prove to beaverylargemarket,andit’slikelythatanumberof companieswillseesignificantbenefit.Wefeelgoodabout whatwe’vedone,andevenmoreexcitedaboutwhatwewanttodo.
General We seek to be Earth’s most customer-centric company.
In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers, and employees.
Information on our net sales is contained in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Consumers We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience.
Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores.
We seek to offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easy- to-use functionality, and timely customer service.
In addition, we offer subscription services such as Amazon Prime, a membership program that includes fast, free shipping on tens of millions of items, access to award-winning movies and series, and other benefits.
We operate customer service centers globally, which are supplemented by co-sourced arrangements.
See Item 2 of Part I, “Properties.” Sellers We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their businesses, sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders using our services.
We earn fixed fees, a percentage of sales, per-unit activity fees, interest, or some combination thereof, for our seller programs.
Content Creators We offer programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians, filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content.
Advertisers We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
3 Competition Our businesses encompass a large variety of product types, service offerings, and delivery channels.
The worldwide marketplace in which we compete is evolving rapidly and intensely competitive, and we face a broad array of competitors from many different industry sectors around the world.
We believe that the principal competitive factors in our retail businesses include selection, price, and convenience, including fast and reliable fulfillment.
Additional competitive factors for our seller and enterprise services include the quality, speed, and reliability of our services and tools, as well as customers’ ability and willingness to change business practices.
Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, greater brand recognition, and greater control over inputs critical to our various businesses.
They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing, pursue restrictive distribution agreements that restrict our access to supply, direct consumers to their own offerings instead of ours, lock-in potential customers with restrictive terms, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing.
The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser-known businesses to compete against us.
Each of our businesses is also subject to rapid change and the development of new business models and the entry of new and well-funded competitors.
Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and/or greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and in our newer geographic regions.
They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing.
In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, digital content, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition.
The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known businesses to compete against us.
As a result of competition, our product and service offerings may not be successful, we may fail to gain or may lose business, and we may be required to increase our spending or lower prices, any of which could materially reduce our sales and profits.
Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies, and Geographic Regions Subjects Us to Additional Risks We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not adopt our product or service offerings.
These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if customers of these offerings experience, or are otherwise impacted by, service disruptions, delays, setbacks, or failures or quality issues.
As international physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and other services grow, competition will intensify, including through adoption of evolving business models.
The People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’s and its affiliates’ businesses and operations in country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation of the internet, IT infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products and services.
If too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we offer or sell and the attractiveness of our products and services.
As a result of holiday sales, as of December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing and financing activities) because consumers primarily use credit cards in our stores and the related receivables settle quickly.
Typically, there is also a corresponding increase in accounts payable as of December 31 due to inventory purchases and third-party seller sales.
Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months of the year as vendors and sellers are paid, resulting in a corresponding decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances.
We Are Impacted by Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers The law relating to the liability of online service providers is currently unsettled.
In addition, our and our customers’ use of artificial intelligence may result in increased claims of infringement or other claims, including those based on unauthorized use of third-party technology or content.
Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content.
Breach or malfunctioning of the digital rights management technology that we use could subject us to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in our service.
Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our sellers, and our business is affected by, among other things, general economic, business, and geopolitical conditions worldwide.
A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth.
As we continue to add fulfillment and data center capability or add new businesses with different requirements, our fulfillment and data center networks become increasingly complex and operating them becomes more challenging.
We use third-party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.
We Face Risks Related to System Interruption and Lack of Redundancy We experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us from efficiently accepting or fulfilling orders or providing services to customers and third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services.
We do not have long-term arrangements with most of our suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content, components, or services, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits.
Under these agreements, we provide web services, technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other services, as well as enable sellers to offer products or services through our stores.
We may not be able to implement, maintain, and develop the components of these commercial relationships, which may include web services, fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, hardware, content, and third-party software, and engaging third parties to perform services.
We also may be subject to claims from businesses to which we provide these services if we are unsuccessful in implementing, maintaining, or developing these services.
We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and at times we are unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or to meet demand during the relevant selling seasons.
In addition, we provide regulated services in certain jurisdictions because we enable customers to keep account balances with us and transfer money to third parties, and because we provide services to third parties to facilitate payments on their behalf.
In addition, regulators and lawmakers are increasingly focused on controlling additional aspects of the operations of technology companies and companies they have characterized to be online “gatekeepers” through the application of existing regulations and laws and the adoption of new regulations and laws, which increases our compliance costs and limits the operation of our business.
An increasing number of jurisdictions are considering or have adopted laws or administrative practices that impose new tax measures, including revenue-based taxes, targeting online commerce and the remote selling of goods and services.
These include new obligations to withhold or collect sales, consumption, value added, or other taxes on online marketplaces and remote sellers, or other requirements that may result in liability for third party obligations.
For example, non-U.S. jurisdictions have proposed or enacted taxes on online advertising and marketplace service revenues.
The data include confidential, proprietary, and business and personal information that we collect, process, store, and transmit as part of our business, including on behalf of third parties.
We require employees with access to information systems, including all corporate employees, to undertake data protection and cybersecurity training and compliance programs annually.
The products offered through our stores include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale and products offered by third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices and produce media content.
We seek to increase unit sales across our stores, through increased product selection, across numerous product categories.
We also offer other services such as compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, advertising, publishing, and digital content subscriptions.
Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flows.
Increases in operating income primarily result from increases in sales of products and services and efficiently managing our operating costs, partially offset by investments we make in longer-term strategic initiatives, including capital expenditures focused on improving the customer experience.
To increase sales of products and services, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, producing original content, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease of use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust.
Our fixed costs include the costs necessary to build and run our technology infrastructure; to build, enhance, and add features to our online stores, web services, electronic devices, and digital offerings; and to build and optimize our fulfillment network.
We seek to turn inventory quickly and collect from consumers before our payments to vendors and sellers become due.
Because consumers primarily use credit cards in our stores, our receivables from consumers settle quickly.
We also expect some variability in accounts payable days over time since they are affected by several factors, including the mix of product sales, the mix of sales by third-party sellers, the mix 20 of suppliers, seasonality, and changes in payment and other terms over time, including the effect of balancing pricing and timing of payment terms with suppliers.
We expect spending in technology and infrastructure will increase over time as we add computer scientists, designers, software and hardware engineers, and merchandising employees.
Our technology and infrastructure investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross- functionality of our systems and operations.
We believe that advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost of processing power, data storage and analytics, improved wireless connectivity, and the practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, will continue to improve users’ experience on the internet and increase its ubiquity in people’s lives.
To best take advantage of these continued advances in technology, we are investing in AWS, which offers a broad set of on-demand technology services, including compute, storage, database, analytics, and machine learning, and other services to developers and enterprises of all sizes.
We are also investing in initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices as well as other initiatives including the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand.
Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, developer, enterprise, and content creator customers, and advertisers, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation, payment processing and related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments.
Cash received from our customers and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales.
We also expect the current macroeconomic environment and enterprise customer cost optimization efforts to impact our AWS revenue growth rates.
Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross.
Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime membership fees, and certain digital media content subscriptions.
Net sales information is as follows (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2022 2023 Net Sales: North America $ 315,880 $ 352,828 International 118,007 131,200 AWS 80,096 90,757 Consolidated $ 513,983 $ 574,785 Year-over-year Percentage Growth (Decline): North America 13 % 12 % International (8) 11 AWS 29 13 Consolidated 9 12 Year-over-year Percentage Growth, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates: North America 13 % 12 % International 4 11 AWS 29 13 Consolidated 13 12 Net Sales Mix: North America 61 % 61 % International 23 23 AWS 16 16 Consolidated 100 % 100 % Sales increased 12% in 2023, compared to the prior year.
The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, primarily by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and subscription services.
Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and convenience for our customers, including from our shipping offers.
The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit sales, primarily by third-party sellers, advertising sales, and subscription services.
Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued focus on price, selection, and convenience for our customers, including from our shipping offers.
The sales growth primarily reflects increased customer usage, partially offset by pricing changes, primarily driven by long-term customer contracts.
The North America operating income in 2023, as compared to the operating loss in the prior year, is primarily due to increased unit sales and increased advertising sales, partially offset by increased shipping and fulfillment costs and increased technology and infrastructure costs.
While AWS payment processing and related transaction costs are included in “Fulfillment,” AWS costs are primarily classified as “Technology and infrastructure.” Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size, and weight of units received and 26 fulfilled, the extent to which third-party sellers utilize Fulfillment by Amazon services, timing of fulfillment network and physical store expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features.
Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
We seek to invest efficiently in numerous areas of technology and infrastructure so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency through rapid technology developments, while operating at an ever increasing scale.
Our technology and infrastructure investment and capital spending projects often support a variety of product and service offerings due to geographic expansion and the cross-functionality of our systems and operations.
We expect spending in technology and infrastructure to increase over time as we continue to add employees and infrastructure.
We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, social and online advertising, third-party customer referrals, television advertising, and other initiatives.
Our marketing costs are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates.
To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs.
Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic and geopolitical conditions and customer demand and spending (including the impact of recessionary fears), inflation, interest rates, regional labor market constraints, world events, the rate of growth of the internet, online commerce, cloud services, and new and emerging technologies, as well as those outlined in Item 1A of Part I, “Risk Factors.” First Quarter 2024 Guidance • Net sales are expected to be between $138.0 billion and $143.5 billion, or to grow between 8% and 13% compared with first quarter 2023.
This guidance includes approximately $0.9 billion lower depreciation expense due to an increase in the estimated useful life of our servers beginning on January 1, 2024.
In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers, and employees.
We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience.
We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their businesses, sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders using our services, and programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians, filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content.
We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through AWS, which offers a broad set of on-demand technology services, including compute, storage, database, analytics, and machine learning, and other services.
In addition, we provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
For example, in Q4 2023 we completed a useful life study for our servers and are increasing the useful life from five years to six years in January 2024, which, based on servers that are included in “Property and equipment, net” as of December 31, 2023, will have an anticipated impact to our 2024 operating income of $3.1 billion.
We had previously increased the useful life of our servers from four years to five years in January 2022.
A description of our principal revenue generating activities is as follows: Retail sales - We offer consumer products through our online and physical stores.
Third-party seller services - We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders using our services.
43 Advertising services - We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
Revenue is recognized as ads are delivered based on the number of clicks or impressions.
Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including digital video, audiobooks, digital music, e-books, and other non-AWS subscription services.
Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation.
Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services.
Revenue from such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period.
Revenue is allocated to services using stand-alone selling prices and is primarily recognized when the customer uses these services, based on the quantity of services rendered, such as compute or storage capacity delivered on-demand.
Certain services, including compute and database, are also offered as a fixed quantity over a specified term, for which revenue is recognized ratably.
Other - Other revenue includes sales related to various other offerings, such as certain licensing and distribution of video content, health care services, and shipping services, and our co-branded credit card agreements.
Revenue is recognized when content is licensed or distributed and as or when services are performed.
We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts.
Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
Advertising and other promotional costs to market our products and services are expensed as incurred and were $16.9 billion, $20.6 billion, and $20.3 billion in 2021, 2022, and 2023.
These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand.
As of December 31, 2022 and 2023, customer receivables, net, were $26.6 billion and $34.1 billion, vendor receivables, net, were $6.9 billion and $8.5 billion, seller receivables, net, were $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion, and other receivables, net, were $3.1 billion and $3.3 billion.
47 Software Development Costs We incur software development costs related to products to be sold, leased, or marketed to external users, internal-use software, and our websites.
Depreciation and amortization is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, four years prior to January 1, 2022 and five years subsequent to January 1, 2022 for our servers, five years prior to January 1, 2022 and six years subsequent to January 1, 2022 for our networking equipment, ten years for heavy equipment, and three to ten years for other fulfillment equipment).
Digital Video and Music Content We obtain video content, inclusive of episodic television and movies, and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions including both fixed and variable payment schedules.
We also develop original video content for which the production costs are capitalized and amortized to “Cost of sales” predominantly on an accelerated basis that follows the estimated viewing patterns associated with the content.
The weighted average remaining life of our capitalized video content is 3.5 years.
We review usage and viewing patterns impacting the amortization of capitalized video content on an ongoing basis and reflect any changes prospectively.
Our produced and licensed video content is primarily monetized together as a unit, referred to as a film group, in each major geography where we offer Amazon Prime memberships.
Total video and music expense includes licensing and production costs associated with content offered within Amazon Prime memberships, and costs associated with digital subscriptions and sold or rented content.
However, the amount and timing of revenue recognition is largely driven by customer usage, which can extend beyond the original contractual term.
(2) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets, and certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores.
Purchase obligations associated with renewal provisions solely at the option of the content provider are included to the extent such commitments are fixed or a minimum amount is specified.
(3) Includes asset retirement obligations, liabilities associated with digital media content agreements with initial terms greater than one year, and the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build- to-suit lease arrangements that are under construction.
We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits.
9,648,388, 10,546,750, and 10,536,751, each entitled “Video-On-Demand Content Delivery System for Providing Video-On-Demand Services to TV 61 Services Subscribers”; 10,028,026, entitled “System for Addressing On-Demand TV Program Content on TV Services Platform of a Digital TV Services Provider”; and 9,973,825, entitled “Dynamic Adjustment of Electronic Program Guide Displays Based on Viewer Preferences for Minimizing Navigation in VOD Program Selection.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages.
North America The North America segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and advertising and subscription services through North America-focused online and physical stores.
We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a physical and digital format, such as books, videos, games, music, and software.
These product sales include digital products sold on a transactional basis.
Digital media content subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage rights are included in “Subscription services.” (2) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a store.
Sales to customers who order goods online for delivery or pickup at our physical stores are included in “Online stores.” (3) Includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, and other third-party seller services.
(4) Includes sales of advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
(5) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships, as well as digital video, audiobook, digital music, e-book, and other non-AWS subscription services.
(6) Includes sales related to various other offerings, such as certain licensing and distribution of video content, health care services, and shipping services, and our co-branded credit card agreements.