The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20231207123337/https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/servicesagreement/ Published: July 30, 2023 Effective: September 30, 2023 Introduction to the Microsoft Services Agreement The Microsoft Services Agreement is an agreement between you and Microsoft (or one of its affiliates) that governs your use of Microsoft consumer online products and services.
We understand that you may have questions about the Microsoft Services Agreement.
We have an FAQ page (https://www.microsoft.com/en- us/servicesagreement/faq) that provides more information, including what Microsoft products and services it covers.
Whenever we make changes, we provide a summary of the most notable changes to the current Microsoft Services Agreement.
Summary of Arbitration Provisions The Microsoft Services Agreement contains binding arbitration and class action waiver terms that apply to U.S. residents.
These terms (“Terms”) cover the use of those Microsoft consumer products, websites, and services listed at the end of these Terms here (https://www.microsoft.com/servicesagreement#serviceslist) (the “Services”).
You accept these Terms by creating a Microsoft account, through your use of the Services, or by continuing to use the Services after being notified of a change to these Terms.
The Privacy Statement also describes how Microsoft uses your content, which is your communications with others; postings submitted by you to Microsoft via the Services; and the files, photos, documents, audio, digital works, livestreams and videos that you upload, store, broadcast, create, generate, or share through the Services or inputs that you submit in order to generate content ("Your Content").
Where processing is based on consent and to the extent permitted by law, by agreeing to these Terms, you consent to Microsoft’s collection, use and disclosure of Your Content and Data as described in the Privacy Statement.
Many of our Services allow you to create, store or share Your Content or receive material from others.
To the extent necessary to provide the Services to you and others, to protect you and the Services, and to improve Microsoft products and services, you grant to Microsoft a worldwide and royalty-free intellectual property license to use Your Content, for example, to make copies of, retain, transmit, reformat, display, and distribute via communication tools Your Content on the Services.
You are accountable for your conduct and content when using the Services.
By agreeing to these Terms, you’re agreeing that, when using the Services, you will follow these rules: i. Don’t do anything illegal, or try to generate or share content that is illegal.
v. Don’t engage in activity that is fraudulent, false or misleading (e.g., asking for money under false pretenses, impersonating someone else, creating fake accounts, automating inauthentic activity, generating or sharing content that is intentionally deceptive, manipulating the Services to increase play count, or affect rankings, ratings, or comments).
More information about our policies, moderation and enforcement processes and service specific terms is available at aka.ms/trustandsafety.
You’ll need a Microsoft account to access many of the Services.
Your Microsoft account lets you sign in to products, websites and services provided by Microsoft and some Microsoft partners.
You can create a Microsoft account by signing up online.
You agree not to use any false, inaccurate or misleading information when signing up for your Microsoft account.
In some cases, a third party, like your Internet service provider, may have assigned a Microsoft account to you.
If you received your Microsoft account from a third party, the third party may have additional rights over your account, like the ability to access or delete your Microsoft account.
Please review any additional terms the third party provided you, as Microsoft has no responsibility regarding these additional terms.
If you create a Microsoft account on behalf of an entity, such as your business or employer, you represent that you have the legal authority to bind that entity to these Terms.
To protect your account, keep your account details and password confidential.
You are responsible for all activity that occurs under your Microsoft account.
This means you must sign in at least once in a two-year period to keep your Microsoft account, and associated Services, active, unless a longer period is provided in the Microsoft account activity policy at https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2086738 or in an offer for a paid portion of the Services.
Please see section 4.a.iv.2 for the consequences of a closed Microsoft account.
By creating a Microsoft account or using the Services, you accept and agree to be bound by these Terms and represent that you have either reached the age of "majority" where you live or your parent or legal guardian agrees to be bound by these Terms on your behalf.
You can cancel specific Services or close your Microsoft account at any time and for any reason.
After that 30- or 60-day period, your Microsoft account will be closed.
If your Microsoft account is closed (whether by you or us), a few things happen.
First, your right to use the Microsoft account to access the Services stops immediately.
Second, we’ll delete Data or Your Content associated with your Microsoft account or will otherwise disassociate it from you and your Microsoft account (unless we are required by law to keep it, return it, or transfer it to you or a third party identified by you).
You should have a regular backup plan as Microsoft won’t be able to retrieve Your Content or Data once your account is closed.
Third, you may lose access to products you’ve acquired.
If you violate these terms or Service-Specific Terms, we may take action against your account.
This could include limiting access to certain features or Services, stopping providing Services, closing your Microsoft account immediately or blocking delivery of a communication (like email, file sharing or instant message) to or from the Services.
Closure of your access to a Service or your account may result in forfeiture of content licenses, associated content, memberships, and Microsoft account balances associated with the account.
You can sign into certain Microsoft services with a work or school email address.
You further agree that your use of the Microsoft services may be subject to the agreements Microsoft has with you or your organization and these Terms may not apply.
If you already have a Microsoft account and you use a separate work or school email address to access Services covered under these Terms, you may be prompted to update the email address associated with your Microsoft account in order to continue accessing such Services.
To use many of the Services, you’ll need an internet connection and/or data/cellular plan.
You are responsible for providing all connections, plans, and equipment needed to use the Services and for paying the fees charged by the provider(s) of your connections, plans, and equipment.
We may also send you Service notifications by other means (for example by in-product messages).
Customer support for some Services is available at https://support.microsoft.com.
Certain Services may offer separate or additional customer support, subject to the terms available at https://microsoft.com/support-service-agreement, unless otherwise specified.
Second, we’ll delete Data or Your Content associated with your Service or will otherwise disassociate it from you and your Microsoft account (unless we are required by law to keep it, return it, or transfer it to you or a third party identified by you).
Third, you may lose access to products you’ve acquired.
If you have canceled your Microsoft account and have no other account able to access the Services your Services may be canceled immediately.
The Services may allow you to access or acquire products, services, websites, links, content, material, games, skills, integrations, bots or applications from independent third parties (companies or people who aren’t Microsoft) ("Third-Party Apps and Services").
Many of our Services also help you find, make requests to, or interact with Third-Party Apps and Services or allow you to share Your Content or Data, and you understand that by using our Services you are directing them to make Third-Party Apps and Services available to you.
The Third-Party Apps and Services may allow you to store Your Content or Data with the publisher, provider or operator of the Third-Party Apps and Services.
The Third-Party Apps and Services may present you with a privacy policy or require you to accept their terms before you can install or use the Third-Party App or Service.
See section 14.b for additional terms for applications acquired through certain Stores owned or operated by Microsoft or its affiliates (including, but not limited to, the Office Store, the Microsoft Store on Xbox and the Microsoft Store on Windows).
You should review the third-party terms and privacy policies before acquiring, using, requesting, or linking your Microsoft Account to any Third-Party Apps and Services.
Microsoft does not license any intellectual property to you as part of any Third-Party Apps and Services and is not responsible or liable to you or others for information or services provided by any Third-Party Apps and Services.
The Services, Third-Party Apps and Services, or material or products offered through the Services may be unavailable from time to time, may be offered for a limited time, or may vary depending on your region or device.
We strive to keep the Services up and running; however, all online services suffer occasional disruptions and outages, and Microsoft is not liable for any disruption or loss you may suffer as a result.
We recommend that you regularly backup Your Content and Data that you store on the Services or store using Third-Party Apps and Services.
Updates to the Services or Software, and Changes to These Terms 7.
Updates to the Services or Software, and Changes to These Terms.
Using the Services after the changes become effective means you agree to the new terms.
If you don’t agree to the new terms, you must stop using the Services, close your Microsoft account and, if you are a parent or guardian, help your minor child close his or her Microsoft account.
Sometimes you’ll need software updates to keep using the Services.
Microsoft isn’t obligated to make any updates available and we don’t guarantee that we will support the version of the system or device for which you purchased or licensed the software, apps, content or other products.
c. Additionally, there may be times when we need to remove or change features or functionality of the Service or stop providing a Service or access to Third-Party Apps and Services altogether.
d. So that you can use material protected with digital rights management (DRM), like some music, games, movies, books and more, DRM software may automatically contact an online rights server and download and install DRM updates.
Unless accompanied by a separate Microsoft license agreement (for example, if you are using a Microsoft application that is included with and a part of Windows, then the Microsoft Software License Terms for the Windows Operating System govern such software), any software provided by us to you as part of the Services is subject to these Terms.
Applications acquired through certain Stores owned or operated by Microsoft or its affiliates (including, but not limited to the Office Store, Microsoft Store on Windows and Microsoft Store on Xbox) are subject to section 14.b.i below.
If you comply with these Terms, we grant you the right to install and use one copy of the software per device on a worldwide basis for use by only one person at a time as part of your use of the Services.
The software or website that is part of the Services may include third-party code.
The software is licensed, not sold, and Microsoft reserves all rights to the software not expressly granted by Microsoft, whether by implication, estoppel, or otherwise.
separate components of the software or Services for use on different devices; iv.
publish, copy, rent, lease, sell, export, import, distribute, or lend the software or the Services, unless Microsoft expressly authorizes you to do so; v. transfer the software, any software licenses, or any rights to access or use the Services; vi.
use the Services in any unauthorized way that could interfere with anyone else’s use of them or gain access to any service, data, account, or network; vii.
enable access to the Services or modify any Microsoft-authorized device (e.g., Xbox consoles, Microsoft Surface, etc.)
If you purchase a Service, then these payment terms apply to your purchase and you agree to them.
By providing Microsoft with a payment method, you (i) represent that you are authorized to use the payment method you provided and that any payment information you provide is true and accurate; (ii) authorize Microsoft to charge you for the Services or available content using your payment method; and (iii) authorize Microsoft to charge you for any paid feature of the Services you choose to sign up for or use while these Terms are in force.
We may bill you (a) in advance; (b) at the time of purchase; (c) shortly after purchase; or (d) on a recurring basis for subscription Services.
When you purchase the Services on a subscription basis (e.g., monthly, every 3 months or annually), you agree that you are authorizing recurring payments, and payments will be made to Microsoft by the method and at the recurring intervals you have agreed to, until the subscription for that Service is terminated by you or by Microsoft.
By authorizing recurring payments, you are authorizing Microsoft to store your payment instrument and process such payments as either electronic debits or fund transfers, or as electronic drafts from your designated account (for Automated Clearing House or similar payments), or as charges to your designated account (for credit card or similar payments) (collectively, "Electronic Payments").
From time to time, Microsoft may offer Services for a trial period during which Microsoft will not charge you for the Services.
Microsoft reserves the right to charge you for such Services (at the normal rate) if Microsoft determines (in its reasonable discretion) that you are breaching the terms and conditions of the offer.
Redemption and use of gift cards (other than Skype gift cards) are governed by the Microsoft Gift Card Terms and Conditions (https://support.microsoft.com/help/10562/microsoft-account-gift-card-terms-and-conditions).
By registering or selecting your bank account as your payment method, you authorize Microsoft (or its agent) to initiate one or more debits for the total amount of your purchase or subscription charge (in accordance with the terms of your subscription service) from your bank account (and, if necessary, initiate one or more credits to your bank account to correct errors, issue a refund or similar purpose), and you authorize the financial institution that holds your bank account to deduct such debits or accept such credits.
You understand that this authorization will remain in full force and effect until you remove your bank account information from your Microsoft account.
For use of free and paid consumer Skype-branded Services, you're contracting with, and all references to “Microsoft” in these Terms mean, Skype Communications S.à.r.l, 23 – 29 Rives de Clausen, L-2165 Luxembourg.
For all other Services, you're contracting with Microsoft Corporation, One Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052, U.S.A. 11.
MICROSOFT, AND OUR AFFILIATES, RESELLERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND VENDORS, MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, GUARANTEES OR CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO YOUR USE OF THE SERVICES.
YOU UNDERSTAND THAT USE OF THE SERVICES IS AT YOUR OWN RISK AND THAT WE PROVIDE THE SERVICES ON AN "AS IS" BASIS "WITH ALL FAULTS" AND "AS AVAILABLE."
If you have any basis for recovering damages (including breach of these Terms), you agree that your exclusive remedy is to recover, from Microsoft or any affiliates, resellers, distributors, Third-Party Apps and Services providers, and vendors, direct damages up to an amount equal to your Services fee for the month during which the loss or breach occurred (or up to $10.00 if the Services are free).
This section contains service-specific terms that are in addition to the general terms.
The Xbox online service, Xbox Game Studios games (including Mojang Games) (https://www.xbox.com/xbox-game-studios), applications, subscriptions (e.g., Xbox Game Pass subscription service offerings), services (e.g., Xbox Cloud Gaming), and content provided by Microsoft (collectively, the "Xbox Services") are only for your personal and noncommercial use.
When you sign up to receive Xbox Services, information about your game play, activities and usage of games and Xbox Services will be tracked and shared with applicable third-parties, including game developers, in order for Microsoft to deliver the Xbox Services and for the third-parties to operate non-Microsoft games and services.
If you choose to link your Microsoft Xbox Services account with your account on a non-Microsoft service or sign in to your Xbox Services account to access a non-Microsoft Service (for example, a non- Microsoft game publisher of Third-Party Apps and Services), you agree that: (a) Microsoft may share limited account and usage-related information (including without limitation gamertag, gamerscore, game history, usage data and friends list), with that non-Microsoft party as stated in the Microsoft Privacy Statement, and (b) if allowed by your Xbox privacy settings, the non-Microsoft party may also have access to Your Content from in-game communications or other applications that you use when you are signed into your account with that non- Microsoft party.
Also, if allowed by your Xbox privacy settings, Microsoft can publish your name, gamertag, gamerpic, motto, avatar, gameclips and games that you’ve played in communications to people you allow.
As part of building the Xbox Services community, you grant to Microsoft, its affiliates and sublicensees a free and worldwide right to use, modify, reproduce, distribute, broadcast, share and display Your Content or your name, gamertag, motto, or avatar that you posted for any Xbox Services.
If you are a minor using the Xbox Services, your parent or guardian may have control over many aspects of your account and may receive reports about your use of the Xbox Services.
The Xbox Services may include a virtual, game currency (like gold, coins or points) that may be purchased from or on behalf of Microsoft using actual monetary instruments if you have reached the age of “majority” where you live.
The Xbox Services may also include virtual, digital items or goods that may be purchased from or on behalf of Microsoft using actual monetary instruments or using game currency.
Game currency and virtual goods may never be redeemed for actual monetary instruments, goods or other items of monetary value from Microsoft or any other party.
Other than a limited, personal, revocable, non-transferable, non- sublicensable license to use the game currency and virtual goods in the Xbox Services only, you have no right or title in or to any such game currency or virtual goods appearing or originating in the Xbox Services, or any other attributes associated with use of the Services or stored within the Xbox Services.
Microsoft may at any time regulate, control, modify and/or eliminate the game currency and/or virtual goods associated with any one or more Xbox games or apps as it sees fit in its sole discretion.
Xbox Services subscriptions are subject to additional terms and conditions set forth in the Xbox Subscriptions Terms & Conditions | Xbox (https://www.xbox.com/en-us/legal/subscription-terms).
Microsoft may turn off your recurring billing and stop recurring charges in select countries if you do not use your Xbox Services subscription for a period of time.
Microsoft will provide notice to you before turning off recurring billing.
For more information, including the applicable period of inactivity, see Subscription inactivity FAQ | Xbox Support (https://support.xbox.com/en- US/help/subscriptions-billing/manage-subscriptions/xbox-subscription-inactivity-policy).
"Store" refers to a Service that allows you to browse, download, purchase, and rate and review applications (the term "application" includes games) and other digital content.
These Terms cover use of certain Stores owned or operated by Microsoft or its affiliates (including, but not limited to, the Office Store, Microsoft Store on Xbox and Microsoft Store on Windows).
"Office Store" means a Store for Office products and apps for Office, Microsoft 365, SharePoint, Exchange, Access and Project (2013 versions or later), or any other experience that is branded Office Store.
"Microsoft Store on Xbox" means a Store owned and operated by Microsoft or its affiliates and made available on Xbox consoles, or any other experience that is branded Microsoft Store and made available on an Xbox console.
We will identify the publisher of each application available in the relevant Store.
For clarity, these Terms cover the use of, and services provided by, Microsoft Services.
Section 5 of these Terms also applies to any Third-Party Apps and Services acquired through a Store.
Microsoft will automatically check for and download updates to your applications, even if you’re not signed into the relevant Store.
If you rate or review an application or other Digital Good in the Store, you may receive email from Microsoft containing content from the publisher of the application or Digital Good.
Any such email comes from Microsoft; we do not share your email address with publishers of applications or other Digital Goods you acquire through the Store.
Microsoft Family Features c. Microsoft Family Features.
Parents and kids can use Microsoft family features, including Microsoft Family Safety, to build trust based on a shared understanding of what behaviors, websites, apps, games, physical locations, and spending is right in their family.
Various Microsoft services allow you to send messages to others via voice or SMS ("messages"), and/or allow Microsoft and Microsoft-controlled affiliates to send such messages to you and one or more other users on your behalf.
Skype, Microsoft Teams, and GroupMe e. Skype, Microsoft Teams, and GroupMe.
Fair usage policies may apply to your use of Skype.
The use of Skype is for your personal and noncommercial use.
If you purchased a subscription with a payment method other than credit card, PayPal or Moneybookers (Skrill), and you have enabled Auto-Recharge, your Skype Credit balance will be recharged with the amount necessary to purchase your next recurring subscription.
If your Microsoft Account is closed, for any reason, any unused Skype credit associated with your Microsoft account will be lost and cannot be retrieved.
The articles, text, photos, maps, videos, video players, and third-party material available on Bing and Microsoft Start, including through Microsoft bots, applications and programs, are for your noncommercial, personal use only.
When you provide your Data or Your Content to Bing Places, you grant Microsoft a worldwide, royalty-free license to use, reproduce, save, modify, aggregate, promote, transmit, display, and distribute your Data and Your Content (including intellectual property rights in your Data and Your Content), and sub-license any or all of the foregoing rights to third parties.
The features, services and content provided by Cortana (collectively "Cortana Services") are only for your personal and noncommercial use.
Cortana Services may allow you to access services, information or functionality provided by other Microsoft Services or Third-Party Apps and Services.
The service-specific Terms of section 14 also apply to your use of applicable Microsoft Services accessed through Cortana Services.
If you choose, Cortana may exchange information with Third-Party Apps and Services, such as your zip code and queries and responses returned by the Third-Party App and Services, to help you obtain requested services.
Cortana may enable you to make purchases through Third-Party Apps and Services using the account preferences and settings you have established directly with those Third-Party Apps and Services.
Your use of Cortana Services to connect with Third-Party Apps and Services is subject to section 5 of these Terms.
Publishers of Third-Party Apps and Services may change or discontinue the functionality or features of their Third-Party Apps and Services or integration with Cortana Services.
Cortana-enabled devices include third-party devices or products that Microsoft does not own, manufacture, or develop.
Microsoft is not responsible or liable for these third-party devices or products.
Microsoft 365 Apps and Services h. Microsoft 365 Apps and Services.
Microsoft 365 Family, Microsoft 365 Personal, Microsoft 365 Basic, Sway, OneNote.com and any other Microsoft 365 app or Service or Office-branded Service is for your personal, noncommercial use, unless you have commercial use rights under a separate agreement with Microsoft.
Use of apps such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, OneDrive, Access, and Publisher in Microsoft 365 Family, Microsoft 365 Personal, and any other Microsoft 365 app or subscription Service is governed by supplemental license terms located at https://aka.ms/useterms together with these Terms.
Through Microsoft Groove, Microsoft Movies & TV, Store, Xbox Services and any other related and future services, Microsoft may enable you to obtain, listen to, view, play or read (as the case may be) music, images, video, text, books, games or other material ("Digital Goods") that you may get in digital form.
The Digital Goods are only for your personal, noncommercial entertainment use.
Digital Goods may be owned by Microsoft or by third parties.
In all circumstances, you understand and acknowledge that your rights with respect to Digital Goods are limited by these Terms, copyright law, and the Usage Rules located at https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=723143.
Microsoft or the owners of the Digital Goods may, from time to time, remove Digital Goods from the Services without notice.
Microsoft Rewards (the "Rewards Program") is free to join, and it enables you to earn points ("Points") for certain activities and for personal use of certain Microsoft products and services.
For more information see the Rewards section at https://support.microsoft.com ("FAQ").
You may be presented with opportunities to earn Points for certain qualifying activities ("Offers"), such as Searches, Acquisitions, use of certain Microsoft products and services, and other opportunities from Microsoft.
You may be presented with Offers directly on the Rewards Dashboard or when you use certain Microsoft products and services.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Microsoft may from time to time in its sole discretion permit you (i) to share your Points within your household (limits may apply), (ii) to contribute your Points to support a nonprofit organization listed on the Redemption Page, or (iii) depending on your Region and subject to other terms and conditions, to redeem all or some of your Points for points in certain other rewards or loyalty programs, including programs operated by Microsoft or authorized third parties.
Microsoft may limit the quantity of Points or Rewards that can be earned or redeemed per person, per household, or over a set period (e.g., a day) provided that you are not disadvantaged in breach of good faith; please refer to the FAQ for currently applicable limitations.
Microsoft further reserves the right to cancel or suspend any Redemption Option you have obtained or attempted to obtain through the Rewards Program if Microsoft determines you are ineligible to receive that Redemption Option for legal reasons (such as export laws).
Your use of the Azure service is governed by the terms and conditions of the separate agreement under which you obtained the services, as detailed on the Microsoft Azure Legal Information page at https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/.
Your use of the Dynamics 365 service is governed by the terms and conditions of the separate agreement under which you obtained the services, as detailed on the Dynamics 365 Legal Information page at Microsoft Dynamics 365 (https://dynamics.microsoft.com/business-applications/legal/).
"AI services" are services that are labeled or described by Microsoft as including, using, powered by, or being an Artificial Intelligence ("AI") system.
"We," "our," and "us" includes Microsoft and Microsoft’s affiliates.
It includes any claim or controversy between you and us concerning the Services, the software related to the Services, the Services’ or software’s price, your Microsoft account, marketing, communications, your purchase transaction, billing, or these Terms, under any legal theory including contract, warranty, tort, statute, or regulation, except disputes relating to the enforcement or validity of your, your licensors’, our, or our licensors’ intellectual property rights.
This is the entire agreement between you and Microsoft for your use of the Services.
It supersedes any prior agreements between you and Microsoft regarding your use of the Services.
Except for section 15 (arbitration and class action waiver) these Terms are solely for your and our benefit; they aren’t for the benefit of any other person, except for Microsoft’s successors and assigns.
If you give to Microsoft any idea, proposal, suggestion or feedback, including without limitation ideas for new products, technologies, promotions, product names, product feedback and product improvements ("Feedback"), you give to Microsoft, without charge, royalties or other obligation to you, the right to make, have made, create derivative works, use, share and commercialize your Feedback in any way and for any purpose.
Microsoft respects the intellectual property rights of third parties.
In appropriate circumstances, Microsoft may also disable or terminate accounts of users of Microsoft services who may be repeat infringers.
A further explanation of the applicable procedures for a given Service, including possible redress for decisions taken by Microsoft as part of these procedures, may be found at Notices of Infringement (https://www.microsoft.com/en- us/legal/intellectualproperty/infringement).
The Services are copyright © Microsoft Corporation and/or its suppliers, One Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052, U.S.A. All rights reserved.
Financial information provided through the Services is for your personal, noncommercial use only.
STANDARD APPLICATION LICENSE TERMS STANDARD APPLICATION LICENSE TERMS FOR APPLICATIONS OFFERED IN THE UNITED STATES MICROSOFT STORE, MICROSOFT STORE ON WINDOWS, AND MICROSOFT STORE ON XBOX These license terms are an agreement between you and the application publisher.
They apply to the software applications you download from the Microsoft Store, the Microsoft Store on Windows or the Microsoft Store on Xbox (each of which is referred to in these license terms as the "Store"), including any updates or supplements for the application, unless the application comes with separate terms, in which case those terms apply.
Microsoft reserves the right to modify Microsoft’s Usage Rules (https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=723143) at any time.
If Microsoft disables the ability to use the applications on your devices pursuant to your agreement with Microsoft, any associated license rights will terminate.
This agreement, any applicable privacy policy, any additional terms that accompany the application, and the terms for supplements and updates are the entire license agreement between you and application publisher for the application.
Covered Services The following products, apps and services are covered by the Microsoft Services Agreement, but may not be available in your market.