● Our Ads Safety Report, where we explain how we are using evolving policies and better technology to find and remove policy-violating ads.
● Our YouTube enforcement report, which we release on a quarterly basis, includes information on channel removals, removal of comments, the policy reasons for removals, and data on appeals.
We will also make the Annual Meeting viewable to anyone interested through our Investor Relations YouTube channel at www.youtube.com/c/AlphabetIR.
He is responsible for Google Search, Assistant, Geo, Ads, Commerce, and Payments products.
Prior to joining Google in March 2012, Prabhakar founded and led Yahoo!
Since joining Google in 2006, he has led Google’s TechNet.org advocacy on competition, content, copyright, and privacy.
We also took steps to drive net-positive impact through user engagement with Google technologies, platforms, products, and services.
In 2018, we launched a quarterly YouTube Community Guidelines Enforcement Report, which we have expanded and refined over the years to include additional data like channel removals, the number of comments removed, the policy reason why a video or channel was removed, and appeals data.
We Already Provide Transparency and Publish Extensive Lobbying Disclosures Google has long been a champion of disclosure and transparency, and has adopted a transparency policy for our public policy activities, including our lobbying efforts.
These efforts help ensure legal and privacy protections for Google users and guard against overbroad disclosures.
Google has also long advocated for transparency for both our users and the public.
We Provide Robust Privacy Controls and Practice Data Minimization for Our Users Protecting our users’ privacy and securing their data is core to Google’s work.
WHEREAS: Google advertising accounted for approximately 80% of Alphabet’s revenue in 2021.
Alphabet’s ad business, including Google Search, YouTube Ads and Google Network, has grown significantly in recent years, reaching $209 billion in 2021.1 Algorithmic systems are deployed to enable the delivery of targeted advertisements, determining what users see.
Google’s current ad infrastructure is driven by third-party cookies, which enable other companies to track users across the internet by accumulating vast troves of personal and behavioral data on Google users.
This further exposes Google to violating user privacy.
While Google has launched a series of projects that aim to address some privacy shortcomings of its current advertising system, it has not shown evidence of any human rights due diligence associated with these plans.
Google asserts that human rights are “integrated into processes and procedures across the company” and has established executive oversight of human rights issues.3 However, it provides no details on how this applies to its dominant source of revenue.4 Google has previously published a summary of a third-party HRIA of a celebrity facial recognition algorithm.5 Its targeted ad systems, which affect billions, merit at least the same due diligence and public disclosure, particularly as Google and its peers develop new approaches to targeting advertising.
Legislation in Europe6 and the United States7 is poised to severely restrict or even ban targeted ads largely due to concerns about the underlying algorithms.
As formalized by our Privacy Sandbox commitments with the UK’s Competition and Markets Authority, we collaborate across the broader digital advertising ecosystem to improve privacy.
Google aggressively enforces its policies by taking down bad ads that promote discrimination against marginalized groups, among other examples.
In March 2023 we published Our 2022 Ads Safety Report, our latest annual report on Google’s efforts to prevent malicious use of our ads platforms.
Google’s personalized advertising policies prohibit employment, housing, and credit advertisers from targeting or excluding ads based on gender, age, parental status, marital status, or zip code, along with our longstanding policies prohibiting personalization based on sensitive categories like race, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, national origin, or disability, among other protections.
Google also provides housing advertisers with information about fair housing requirements to help ensure they are acting in ways that support access to housing opportunities.
Google intends to continue to iterate and apply these publisher and advertiser policies as new privacy enhancing technologies are developed and integrated into our platforms, such as those associated with the Privacy Sandbox project initiative.
We Collaborate Across the Digital Ads Ecosystem to Enhance Privacy and Are Already Testing the Efficacy of New Methodologies We collaborate across the digital ads ecosystem to enhance privacy.
For example, in addition to the measures the company has implemented for its own products, Google is also working diligently to collaborate with the digital ads ecosystem to create solutions that enable advertisers to rely less on third-party cookies or tracking consumers across the internet in order to provide ads that are relevant to them.
The Privacy Sandbox proposals are designed to offer solutions for key ads use cases by using privacy-enhancing technologies while also showing relevant ads.
Google has been working with the advertising ecosystem to ideate, design, develop and test Privacy Sandbox proposals since the project’s inception.
Giving the advertising ecosystem sufficient time and tools to test the Topics API and other Privacy Sandbox proposals and to provide feedback before third-party cookie deprecation will help reduce major disruptions to publishers’ businesses and address concerns regarding other tracking techniques detrimental to user privacy.
This regulatory oversight and supervision helps provide reassurance that the Privacy Sandbox will protect consumers, support a competitive ad-supported web, and not unfairly favor Google.
White supremacist and anti- Muslim ideologies have appeared on YouTube and can lead to offline violence; for example, the New Zealand Royal Commission found that content on YouTube radicalized the man who massacred 51 people at Christchurch mosques in 2019.6 In 2020, Google fired Timnit Gebru, co-lead of Google’s AI ethics team, after she conducted research that found Google’s technology could perpetuate racism and sexism.7 Promoting fairness, accountability, and transparency in artificial intelligence is central to its utility and safety to society.
The Mozilla Foundation and researchers at New York University have put forward recommendations and technical standards for algorithm and ad transparency.8 Shareholders believe that improved disclosure will help in building and maintaining users and investors’ trust, that will ultimately drive long-term, sustainable value creation.
We Already Provide Significant Information About Our Product Policies and Procedures Supporting a trustworthy and transparent digital ecosystem for our users, advertisers, and publishers is critical to our business.
That is why we publish a number of policies and reports that provide meaningful visibility into how those services operate, as well as provide easy-to-use tools that put users in control, including: ● An overview of How Search Works, including how we build and operate Google Search, when and why we remove content from search results, how we update our systems to improve results, and how Google’s Search Quality Rater Guidelines help evaluate and improve search quality around the world.
● A website called How YouTube Works to explain how YouTube fosters a responsible platform that the users, creators, and artists who make up our community can rely on.
It includes information on YouTube’s policies, including the YouTube Community Guidelines that outline what type of content is not allowed on YouTube.
The YouTube Community Guidelines are a key part of our broader suite of policies and are regularly updated in consultation with outside experts.
The site also includes information about product features, including how recommendations work, along with user controls such as privacy settings, ads settings, and parental controls.
● A YouTube Community Guidelines transparency report, updated quarterly.
This report provides data on how YouTube enforces its policies and details how automated flagging systems help detect violative content.
YouTube relies on a combination of automated technology combined with human review to identify and remove content that violates its policies.
● The YouTube Researcher Program, launched in July 2022, through which YouTube has expanded access to YouTube’s global Data API to advance the public’s understanding of the platform.
● Our Google Ads Policies and our Google Publisher Policies provide guidelines for publishers and advertisers to help maintain trust in our ads ecosystem by, for instance: (1) outlining our approach to ensure a safe and positive experience for our users, and (2) clearly disclosing how we consider ads or destinations that we believe may to be harmful to users or displays shocking content or promotes hatred, intolerance, discrimination, or violence.
Our Personalized Ads Policies provide substantial information on our personalized advertising policies, with separate pages for sensitive interest categories.
● For the past decade, we have published an Ads Safety Report each year, which outlines our efforts to prevent malicious use of our ads platforms.
● Ads controls for users, through My Ad Center and About this Ad.
These give users greater control over their ad experience.
On Google services, like YouTube and Search, and on sites that partner with Google to show ads, users can block an ad, report an ad, learn who paid for an ad, and much more.
We will roll out My Ad Center gradually across all Google services in 2023.
Multiple academic and journalistic studies of our services, including Search, Ads, YouTube, and more, have found that those services deliver high-quality results, and do not reflect political or other improper biases.
Providing proprietary information with regard to our algorithmic systems would not provide meaningful information to investors, but could disclose trade secrets, enable others to game our systems through illegitimate “search engine optimization”, bypass established protections, or reveal information about our business operations and advertising products that could be used to compromise our operations and the quality of our services.
Alphabet 2022-2023 Shareholder Proposal Whereas, YouTube and parent company Alphabet have faced numerous problems associated with its content moderation and platform design, including the site being a central repository for and viral propagator of conspiracy theories, propaganda, fake news, extremist, and hateful content and facilitating the sexual exploitation of women and children and other crimes impacting the most vulnerable, including trafficking, sextortion and harassment; Despite tremendous effort and leadership at YouTube, the platform remains an important part of the Child Sexual Abuse Exploitation Ecosystem, by being a place of contact for grooming and coercion, livestreaming and housing CSA material.
We have longstanding policies and procedures to foster a responsible platform that the users, creators, and artists who make up our vibrant online community can rely on, and we work continuously to keep pace with the changing landscape of online content.
Against the backdrop of increasing and ever-evolving online safety regulations, we have also intensified our company-wide regulatory readiness initiatives, including within YouTube, all under appropriate senior management and Board oversight.
We Provide Significant Information About YouTube’s Policies and Procedures to Further Our Commitment to Online Safety It is our responsibility to manage what is on the YouTube platform so that people can access authoritative information without being exposed to content that violates our policies.
We develop and update YouTube’s policies in consultation with a wide range of external industry and policy experts, as well as creators.
These policies and disclosures include: ● YouTube’s help center, which provides information about our content policies, including the YouTube Community Guidelines and Advertising-Friendly Guidelines; eligibility requirements for the YouTube Partner Program; account management and content control settings for creators and users; and basic how-tos for creators.
● The How YouTube Works website, which explains how YouTube provides a responsible platform.
It includes information on YouTube’s policies, including the YouTube Community Guidelines that outline what type of content is not allowed on YouTube.
The YouTube Community Guidelines are a key part of our broader suite of policies and are regularly updated in consultation with outside experts.
The site also includes information about product features, including how recommendations work, along with user controls such as privacy settings, ads settings, and parental controls.
● A YouTube Community Guidelines transparency report, updated quarterly.
This report provides data on how YouTube enforces its policies and details how automated flagging systems help detect violative content.
YouTube relies on a combination of automated technology combined with human review to identify and remove content that violates its policies.
● A metric called Violative View Rate, disclosed as part of the YouTube Community Guidelines transparency report, which measures the progress on removing violative videos by estimating the percentage of views on violative videos.
● Additional information, including quantitative data, on specific policies, product features, and initiatives on YouTube’s blog.
This baseline report represents a meaningful first step in the work Google and YouTube have undertaken to meet our commitments under the Code, including an in-depth overview of actions taken under YouTube’s misinformation policies.
Further, Google and YouTube are committed to sharing data that sheds light on how the policies and actions of governments affect privacy, security, and access to information online, and we have voluntarily issued detailed, timely disclosures regarding compliance and product changes in relation to new regulations.
For example, in January 2020 we issued a blog post titled Better protecting kid’s privacy on YouTube, and in August 2021 we issued a blog post titled YouTube’s approach to copyright, outlining YouTube’s response to the European Copyright Directive and our engagement with policymakers across Europe on our development and implementation of compliance plans.
Risk Audit on Content Censorship RESOLVED: Shareholders request that Alphabet Inc. (“Company”) issue a report at reasonable cost – omitting proprietary or legally privileged information – reviewing the vulnerabilities of its enforcement of Google’s and YouTube’s Terms of Service related to content policies, and assessing the risks posed by content management controversies related to issues such as election interference, freedom of expression, and inequitable application of policies, and how they affect the Company’s finances, operations, and reputation.
We carefully evaluate decisions to remove or de-monetize websites and content on our services and seek to harmonize the application of our policies across those services.
We Have Undertaken Substantial Efforts to Prevent the Manipulation and Abuse of Our Platforms The abuse of our platforms to spread harmful content and disinformation is antithetical to our mission to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful, and we have a responsibility to prevent such abuses.
Moreover, our business model depends on our services providing a useful and trustworthy source of information for all our users.
● Respect user choice: We believe that users looking for content that is not illegal or prohibited by our policies should be able to find it, while we seek to avoid presenting low quality content to users who are not looking for it.
Each of the products and services we offer has a different purpose, and people have different expectations of what kind of content they will find on each.
Our collection of blog posts on How Search Works describe how we build and operate Google Search, when and why we remove content from search results, how we update our systems to improve results, and how Google’s Search Quality Rater Guidelines help improve search quality around the world.
We also process thousands of removal requests every year, and share that information in our Google Transparency Report.
We publish our content and behavior policies for Google News to promote a positive experience for our users and publishing partners.
● On YouTube: YouTube’s search ranking system enables users to sort through a vast number of videos to find the most relevant and useful results to their queries.
We have automated flagging systems that flag content that may violate the YouTube Community Guidelines, complemented by thousands of reviewers who operate around the clock.
The YouTube Community Guidelines contain policies against hate speech, deceptive practices, scams, impersonation, spam, harassment, and other abusive content.
We have taken aggressive action to ensure compliance with the YouTube Community Guidelines.
For example, from July 2022 to September 2022, we removed over 207 million videos after channel-level suspensions.
● On Google Ads: Our Google Ads policies govern what content can and cannot be monetized to help ensure the safety of the content of both ads and publisher sites.
Our annual ‘Ads Safety’ report outlines how we enforce our advertising policies, including the number of ads that were removed, the number of pages that we stopped showing ads on, the number of advertiser and publisher accounts we terminated, and the updates we made to our policies.
Alphabet’s YouTube platform has been plagued by content management issues, including failing to remove channels disseminating antisemitic and white supremacist content, and spreading dis and misinformation globally, especially in languages other than English.
Researchers have found Google’s ad platforms a critical source of funding for covid, climate, election, and other disinformation websites, yet opaque to those seeking to monitor advertisers potentially violating the platform’s terms of use.
For your convenience, we are pleased to offer a live webcast of the Annual Meeting through our Investor Relations YouTube channel at https://www.youtube.com/c/AlphabetIR.