I'll start with our ongoing effort to lower our costs to serve in our stores fulfillment network.
This means constantly trying to improve experiences that we can deliver to customers short and long-term.
We now have more than 300 million items available with U.S. Prime free shipping, including tens and millions of items with free same day and one day delivery.
We're continuing to focus on providing great value with tens and millions of deals that help customers stretch their dollar or more.
Prime members purchased more than 375 million items worldwide and saved more than $2.5 billion across the Amazon store helping make it the biggest Prime Day ever.
These are important factors for why AWS has grown the way it has over the last several years, and for why AWS has almost doubled the revenue of any other provider.
By with prime is continuing to show a lot of progress merchants in early trials who use by with prime saw their shop or conversion increase by 25% on average which makes a real difference to their business also merchants who participated in prime day activities in aggregate experience to 10 x increase in daily by with prime orders during the sales event period versus the month before we announced prime day.
It's frankly only been a short amount of time that we've decided to invest significantly in the health care market segment a lot of what we tried before were smaller experiments but were pleased with Amazon pharmacy doubling its active customers in the past year and were pleased with the response to our expass which enables prime members to receive all of their eligible generic medications for just $5 a month and have them delivered free to their door.
We are encouraged by the strength in our reported revenue which is another proof point that our focus on price selection and convenience continues to resonate with customers.
Prime members love the faster ship speeds and are shopping more often advertising revenue remains strong up 22% year every year.
And sort of aligning the asset in place against the Amazon scale of the Amazon Prime households in your customer base.
And if you want to be able to serve more customers, which we do and there are a whole number of reasons for that and customers want it, you have to have a strong physical presence.
We're continuing to extend delivery to non prime customers as well.
So it's true in our stores business is true in our AWS business is true in our advertising business is true in all our devices and you can just imagine what we're working on with with respect to Alexa there is true in our entertainment businesses every single one.
And so, you know, it's it's like in AWS in general, one of the interesting things in AWS and this was this has been true from the very earliest days, which is the more demand that you have the more capital you need to spend, you know, because you invest in data centers and hardware upfront and then you monetize that over a long period of time.