We remain on pace to deliver the fastest delivery speeds for prime customers in our 29-year history.
We believe this collaboration will be helpful and continue to accelerate the price performance advantages that training and inference should deliver for customers.
As you can tell, we're focused on doing what we've always done for customers, taking technology that can transform customer experiences and businesses, but they can be complex and expensive, and democratizing it for customers of all sizes and technical abilities.
We're pleased with what we're seeing in Prime Video.
Prime Video continues to be an integral part of the Prime Value Proposition where it's often one of the top two drivers of customers signing up for Prime.
We also have increasing conviction that Prime Video can be a large and profitable business in its own right as we continue to invest in compelling, exclusive content for Prime Members, but also offer the best selection of premium streaming video content anywhere, with our marketplace offering, including channels where customers can subscribe to channels like Macs, Paramount Plus, BET Plus, and MGM Plus, as well as our broad transaction video on demand selection.
As we continue to invest in compelling content, beginning in early 2024, Prime Video shows and movies will include limited advertisements.
We aim to have meaningfully fewer ads than linear TV and other streaming TV providers.
And if customers prefer an ad-free option, we plan to offer that for an additional $2.99 per month for US members.
There is still a lot of work to be done in innovation ahead, but we're excited about our future in Prime Video.
We're seeing progress on a number of investments that expand our ability to serve more consumers and sellers in their e-commerce missions.
Both consumers and sellers are excited about Buy With Prime, which enables third-party sellers with directed consumer websites to offer Amazon Prime Members the same fast payments and delivery options they receive on Amazon.com.
We recently announced the capability for sellers to integrate Buy With Prime with their Shopify account, making it easier for Shopify merchants to manage their businesses with inventory pricing and promotions automatically synced in one place.
Prime big deal days held earlier this month was our most successful October holiday kickoff event ever, with Prime members saving more than a billion dollars across hundreds and millions of items sold.
During the quarter, we held our biggest prime day event ever, with Prime members purchasing more than 375 million items worldwide, and saving more than $2.5 billion on millions of deals across the Amazon store.
Outside of prime day, we continued to see strong demand across everyday essentials, including categories like beauty and health and personal care.
These improvements in delivery speeds have been a key driver of growth, and a resulting in increased purchase frequency by our prime numbers.
Key drivers of this improvement include reductions in our cost to serve, continued advertising growth, and improved leverage on our fixed costs.
Those are just good examples of some of the cost optimization that customers are making in less certain economies where it's really good for customers short and long term.
What are you most excited about on the initial front to continue to build scale both on Amazon properties and possibly off Amazon as a broader digital advertising player?
It's the one game that week and advertisers want to be in front of customers because, you know, there's 13 million customers, you know, a week watching.
I think both of those are real advantages in our advertising area right now.
You know, in terms of additional things we're excited about, I think that we have barely scraped the surface with respect to figuring out how to intelligently integrate advertising into video, into audio, and into grocery.
I think that we also started externalizing some of our products like sponsored products to third party websites.
And we continue to work on price selection and convenience and all the retail basics, essentially, you know, adding sellers, adding vendors and selection, scaling, advertising and improving the cost structure of our ops network.
You know, we continue, we're going to continue to invest internationally in things like prime and expanding prime benefits.