These events also helped attract new customers and prime members.
In 2023, Amazon delivered to prime members at the fastest speeds ever with more than seven billion items arriving same or next day, including more than four billion in the US and more than two billion in Europe.
As we're able to get customers items this fast, it increases the number of occasions that customers choose Amazon to fulfill their shopping needs.
Lower and cost to serve allows us not only to invest in speed improvements, but also afford adding more selection at lower average selling prices or ASPs and profitably.
We've challenged every closely held belief in our fulfillment network and reevaluated every part of it and found several areas where we believe we can lower costs while also delivering faster for customers.
We've recently added sponsored TV to this offering in the US, a self service solution for brands to create streaming TV campaigns with no minimum spend putting this advertising within reach of any business.
While still early days streaming TV advertising continues to grow quickly.
Brands are using our capabilities to reach engage viewers on Twitch, free V fire TV and prime video shows and movies, which just launched in the US as well as Thursday night football.
Security is a big deal and important differentiator between cloud providers.
We launched two end and prototype satellites into space and successfully validated all key systems and subsystems made a two way video call streamed a prime video movie in ultra HD 4K and made an Amazon purchase over our end to end communication network.
The customer experience continued to improve our talent, production, streaming quality, analytics, and unique AI features like prime vision and defensive alerts all took big leaps forward on top of the very good start last year.
We have increasing conviction that prime video can be a large and profitable business on its own and will continue to invest in compelling exclusive content for prime members like Thursday football, water, the rings, reacher, Mr. and Mrs. Smith, Citadel and more.
And with the addition of ads and prime video, we'll be able to continue investing meaningfully in content over time.
Shopping events throughout the quarter included prime big deal days in October and our extended Black Friday and Cyber Monday shopping event helped to attract new prime members and deliver billions and savings for customers.
These improvements in delivery speed have led to increased purchase frequency by our prime members across all of our major geographies.
It also strengthened the man for our everyday essentials, categories like beauty and health and personal care, where speed is even more important to customers.
And there's a lot of value in tailoring sponsored products.
So they are relevant to what a customer is actually searching for.
We're also continually focused on improving our measurement capabilities, which allow brands to see the payback of their advertising spend.
We were pleased with the performance of our regionalized network during the holiday period, where we sought benefits from improved inventory placement, helping drive faster speeds and also lowering costs.
Again, cost of service down advertising is stronger.
And again, leveraging their cost structure, investing wisely in prime benefits, but all on a curve to break even and then be a contributor to income and free cash flow.
The other thing I'd point out is that we have advanced loaded, I would say, prime benefits in our international markets.
We think it's a very good source of customer acquisition and customer retention.
We had a bit of a higher spend in a divide, excuse me, in digital content in Q4 as we had a number of marketing and content, especially around live sports, English primarily, in Champions League, in Germany and Italy, for example.
But we like those benefits and those investments, they're proven vehicle for customer acquisition, as they said.
And it gets people shopping on our sites and engaging with benefits is always positive for the relationship with Amazon.
And then secondly, on the prime time video, Amazon Prime video, I know it's just launched.
I think Andy laid it out pretty well a few minutes ago on the cost structure, the regionalization, the growing into the assets that we added during the pandemic, great efficiency, and work with productivity across really all of our operations network, a fixed attention to fixed costs and a lowering cost where we can maintain and cost where we can the increase in advertising success in advertising revenue growth that's outpaced our traffic growth rates.
I mean, you know, what I would say for ads in video is that, you know, advertisers are excited to access our prime customer base.
We're looking for ways to increase our advertising in our streaming properties, including, you know, fire TV, but also in prime video, but also things like freebie and twitch.
And, you know, it's an important part of the total business model and we expected it to allow us to have a healthy business to continue to invest in content and to continue to grow that.
And like all of our advertising, we're going to try and be useful for customers.
We launched for prime members the ability to get a one medical subscription from $9 a month or $99 a year, which is 50% off the typical price.
Is that an area that you think can materially improve conversion rates and the overall consumer engagement on the retail apps or what's your vision there?
And so, you know, and then it also lets you look at all your data repositories, whether it's internets or wikis or, you know, the 40 plus data connectors like Salesforce, Nolassian, and Zendesk, and Slack and it lets you have an intelligent conversation to get answers and take action.
And then it's seamlessly integrated in the Amazon experience that customers are used to and love to be able to take action.
And I can kind of step through every one of those consumer businesses, you know, our advertising businesses is building capabilities where people can submit a picture and an ad copy is written and the other way around and you can kind of think about Alexa where we're building a very large expansive large language model that's going to make Alexa even more productive and helpful for customer.