In this past Q1, we delivered to prime members at our fastest speeds ever.
As we get items to customers this fast, customers choose Amazon to fulfill their shopping needs more frequently, and we can see the results in various areas, including how fast or everyday essentials business is growing, and the continued increase in prime member purchase frequency in total spend with us.
We still see significant opportunity ahead in our sponsored products, as well as areas where we're just getting started like Prime Video Ads.
Prime Video Ads offers brands' values we can better link the impact of streaming TV advertising to business outcomes, like product sales or subscription signups, whether the brands sell on Amazon or not.
It's very early for streaming TV ads, but we're encouraged by the earlier response.
It makes answering straightforward questions about company policies, products, business results, code, people in many other topics hard and frustrating.
If you've been paying attention to what's been happening the last year or so, you can see there are big differences between providers on these dimensions.
Our third party logistics business offering services like buy with prime, Amazon shipping, and multi-channel fulfillment continues to grow well.
We just launched a prime delivery grocery benefit that lets customers receive free unlimited grocery delivery for just $9.99 a month, which is great value and customers are responding accordingly.
Prime Video continues to produce compelling content with fallout being our latest big hit on the heels of the very successful Roadhouse movie with strong customer engagement in our original and partner content.
We added selection including premium and luxury brands and we delivered at our fastest speeds ever for prime members.
We see many opportunities to grow our offerings both in the areas that are driving growth today like sponsored products and in areas that are newer like streaming TV ads.
We obviously have buy with Prime where we enable our Prime customers to be able to buy from our third party buy with Prime sellers websites which increases their conversion 25% versus what they would do on their own.
And then maybe a little bit of extra on on prime video ramp.
I think advertisers are excited about being able to expand their ability to advertise with us in video beyond Twitch and free V to prime video shows and movies.
I think they also find that you know the relevancy and the measure ability of that type of advertising and prime video ads is unique for them.
As you mentioned, Justin, we just launched a prime benefit for grocery, which is all you can eat delivery for $9.99 a month, which if you order once from Whole Foods a month, the pays for itself or once from Amazon Fresh for orders under $40 a pays for itself.
It's a very valuable offering for our prime members and it's off to a great start.
And if you could find any insights on on maybe how in-down fulfillment architecture might add to just continued benefits on faster shipping, same day next day, et cetera.
They're adding new features like grocery there, adding to their prime benefits.
The first thing we see there is having a good customer experience, having people sign up for prime.
A lot of times our prime video benefits help with that.