These General Terms of Use (“General Terms”), along with any applicable Product Specific Terms (see section 1.2 (Product Specific Terms) below) (collectively, the “Terms”) govern your use of and access to our websites, web- based applications and products, customer support, discussion forums or other interactive areas or services, and services such as Creative Cloud (collectively, the “Services”) and your installation and use of any software that we include as part of the Services, including, without limitation, mobile and desktop applications, Sample Files and Content Files (defined below), scripts, instruction sets, and related documentation (collectively, the “Software”).
If you have agreed to the Subscription and Cancellation Terms (https://www.adobe.com/legal/subscription-terms.html), then such terms are also considered part of the Terms.
If you are using and accessing the Services and Software through Adobe’s Value Incentive Plan (“VIP”) program, then the Subscription and Cancellation Terms do not apply to you, but the remainder of the Terms will govern your use of and access to the Services and Software.
Our Services and Software are licensed, not sold, to you, and also may be subject to one or more of the additional terms below (“Product Specific Terms”).
Adobe Acrobat Services (DC APIs) Adobe Acrobat Sign Adobe Collaboration Space Adobe Developer Adobe Express Adobe Fonts Adobe Generative AI Adobe Spark Adobe Stock Adobe Stock Contributor Adobe Substance 3D Assets Adobe Substance 3D Community Assets Behance Business Customers Demo Assets Document Cloud Fuse InDesign Server K-12 and Higher Education Lightroom Medium Photoshop Express Software 1.3 Business Users Section 1.3 means: If you’re using an individual Adobe plan, you have control over your content and the work you create.
If you received an “Entitlement” (which is defined as the right to use, access, and consume the Services and Software) from an organization or group, including but not limited to a business or any other commercial entity, government entity, non-profit organization, or educational institution (each, a “Business”) under one of Adobe’s business plans (such as Creative Cloud for Teams, Creative Cloud for Enterprise, or Document Cloud), then (A) you are a “Business User” of such Business; (B) your Adobe profile associated with such Entitlement is a “Business Profile”; and (C) all references to “you” in the Terms will mean such Business and its Business Users, as applicable.
If you are a Business User, you agree that, due to your receipt of Entitlements from such Business, (1) Adobe may provide such Business with the ability to access, use, remove, retain, and control your Business Profile and all Content therein whether uploaded or imported before or after the date the Terms were last updated; (2) your use of the Services and Software is governed by such Business’s agreement with Adobe; and (3) Adobe may provide your personal information to such Business.
If you did not receive Entitlements from a Business (e.g., you subscribed to a Creative Cloud for individuals plan and received Entitlements through this plan), then (a) you are a “Personal User”; (b) your Adobe profile is a personal profile; (c) you maintain sole access and control over all Content in your personal account or personal profile (except as otherwise indicated in the Privacy Policy); and (d) all references to “you” in the Terms will mean you as an individual.
1.4 Business Email Domains As a Personal User or a Business User, you may create an Adobe account using an email address provided or assigned to you by a Business (such as your work email address).
You, as a Personal User with an Adobe account assigned to a Business or a Business User, also acknowledge that Adobe may provide your personal information to such Business (including, for clarity, sharing your information with an administrator of your Business), such as your name, email address and Entitlement information.
Information regarding Content storage and access, and how you may change the email address associated with your account may be found here: https://adobe.com/go/business-storage- helpx.
Adobe may share information about the Business, such as name and email address of the administrator, to a Business User.
Our Services and Software will access your Local and Cloud Content to enable the normal running of the Services and Software, for example, allowing Photoshop to open your file so you can edit it.
Subject to your opt-out rights, we may perform Content Analytics (see section 4.3(B)) with Cloud Content to help us understand how our users are using our Services and Software to allow us to improve your Services and Software experience, provide recommendations to you, and customize your experience.
For Cloud Content on our Adobe Stock platform and other public-facing platforms like Behance and Lightroom communities, all Cloud Content is subject to review for intellectual property issues and safety issues (for example, violence and nudity).
For Cloud Content, human review may occur in limited circumstances: 1. when you ask us (like contacting our support team); 2. when you make your Cloud Content publicly available (like on Adobe Stock or Behance); 3. when your Cloud Content is flagged or reported as illegal or abusive (like Child Sexual Abuse Materials); or 4. when you opt in to a prerelease, beta, or product improvement program (like the Adobe Photoshop Improvement Program).
By using our Services and Software, you authorize Adobe to transfer your personal information across national borders and to other countries where Adobe and its partners operate.
Use of Services and Software 3.1 License Section 3.1 means: Adobe grants you certain rights to use your license to Adobe’s apps and services.
Subject to your compliance with the Terms and applicable law, we hereby grant you a non-exclusive, limited, revocable right (as set forth herein) for you to install, access and use the Services and Software that we make available to you, and that you license from us.
The version(s) of the Services and Software available at your renewal date may be different from the version(s) available when you first licensed them from Adobe.
You agree that your decision to use, access, or license the Services and Software is not contingent on the delivery of any future functionality or features, or dependent on any oral or written public comments made by us regarding future functionality or features.
We recommend that you back up your Content and Creative Cloud Customer Fonts elsewhere regularly, even if the Services provide storage and this functionality is enabled by the applicable Services.
At the end of your license term, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to allow you to transition your Content out of the Services.
You should download any Content that you have stored in the Services before your license ends.
Unless documentation or specific licenses (including but not limited to Product Specific Terms) state otherwise, we grant you a personal, non- exclusive, non-sublicensable (except if you are a Business, then sublicensable only to your Business Users), and non-transferable license to use the Content Files to create your end use (i.e., the derivative application or product authored by you) into which the Content Files, or derivations thereof, are embedded for your use (“End Use”).
3.7 Free Memberships, Complimentary Services, Offers, and Trials Section 3.7 means: We may offer our products and services to you at no charge, like free memberships or trial subscriptions.
Adobe may provide free memberships, Complimentary Services, offers, and trial subscriptions in its sole discretion.
If access to the Services and Software is provided to you for free, Complimentary Services, or for trial purposes, such access is governed by the Terms.
After the free, Complimentary Services, or trial access period expires, you may continue using the Services or Software in a paid subscription, if available, or as otherwise permitted by Adobe.
(B) We offer a paid “Talent Search” feature to recruiters and companies looking to discover and hire creative talents.
(A) For any font or font file you upload or submit to the Services and Software (“Creative Cloud Customer Fonts”) you represent and warrant that you have all necessary rights to allow us to use, reproduce, display, host, and distribute the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts through the Services and Software for your use.
Creative Cloud Customer Fonts are not considered Content, as defined in the Terms.
You retain all rights to the unmodified Creative Cloud Customer Fonts.
You acknowledge that enabling the display of any Creative Cloud Customer Font with the Services and Software for your use may require us to use Adobe Technology, including our proprietary font-optimization technology, and that we retain all rights to such Adobe Technology.
Adobe does not represent or warrant that any such Creative Cloud Customer Fonts will be compatible with or be suitable for use with the Services or Software.
(B) If we are informed by a third party, such as a foundry, or become aware that you do not have the rights to which you warrant in section 3.10(A) (Creative Cloud Customer Fonts) or that your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts violate third-party Intellectual Property Rights, then we may remove the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts from your account, from the Services, or from the Content that uses such Creative Cloud Customer Fonts.
You acknowledge that if we remove your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts from your account, the Services or the Content that uses the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts, or the display of your Content may change, and we will have no liability in connection with the removal.
(C) You may revoke our access to your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts and terminate our rights at any time by deleting your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts from the Service.
(D) Upon termination or closure of your account, we reserve the right to delete your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts.
Some copies of your Creative Cloud Customer Fonts may be retained as part of our routine backups.
(E) We may collect information connected to your use of the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts, such as names of the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts that you upload and how you use the Creative Cloud Customer Fonts.
They are governed by the terms of the third-party providers.
Adobe may make third-party software and services (including plug-ins and extensions) available to you through the Services and Software as a convenience.
Some third- party terms that may be applicable to your use of the Services and Software are available here: (https://www.adobe.com/go/thirdparty and https://www.adobe.com/legal/permissions notice.html).
But in order to use our products and services, we need you to give us permission to use your content when stored or processed in our cloud.
This license allows us to provide our products and services to you, like if you want to share your content or publish your content on Behance.
When you choose to help us improve our products, we need a limited license to your content for that specific purpose.
(A) License to Cloud Content to Operate the Services and Software on Your Behalf.
What Adobe Does Not Do We will not (and cannot) grant a sublicense to a third party that is greater than the rights you give us.
Under this clause 4.3(A), we do not have the right to, and will not, use your Content to market or promote Adobe.
(B) License to Cloud Content to Improve our Services and Software.
(B) License to Cloud Content to Improve our Services and Software.
Solely for the purpose of our internal analysis of how you use our Services and Software and the characteristics of your Content (such as file type and structural attributes) (together, “Content Analytics”), you grant us a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license to do the following to improve our Services and Software: 1. reproduce (for example, to make copies of your Cloud Content in our internal file storage repositories); 2. create derivative works (for example, to convert between file formats, or crop the Cloud Content); and 3. sublicense the foregoing rights to third parties acting on our behalf (for example, we may utilize trusted vendors and contractors subject to confidentiality and privacy restrictions to do Content Analytics on our behalf).
Some Services and Software may provide features that allow you to Share your Content with other users or to make it public.
In such event, you agree that we are free to use the Feedback for our business purposes, including by incorporation into the Services and Software without any payment or attribution or other obligation to you.
Your account administrator may use your account information to manage your use and access to the Services and Software.
Adobe assumes no responsibility for any loss that you may sustain due to a compromise of your account login credentials, or your failure to follow or act on any notices or alerts that we may send to your email address or telephone number.
If you are located in a different country from the applicable Adobe entity with which you are transacting (i.e., Adobe Inc. for North American customers and Adobe Systems Software Ireland Limited for customers in all other countries), your payments will be made to a foreign entity.
You authorize us or our authorized vendor(s) to continue billing and charging your account for amounts owed with the information that we obtain.
8.2 Indemnification You will indemnify us and our subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, agents, employees, partners, and licensors from any claim(s), demand(s), loss(es), or damage(s), including reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of, or related to: (A) your Content, including, but not limited to Creative Cloud Customer Fonts; (B) your use of the Services and Software (as applicable); (C) your interactions with any other users (including Third-Party Entitlement Holders); or (D) your violation of the Terms (“Matter”).
You may use and access the Services and Software at your own discretion and risk, and you are solely responsible for any damage to your computer system or loss of data that results from the use of and access to any Service and Software.
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 10.1 Unless stated in the Product Specific Terms, in no event shall the Covered Parties be liable to you or anyone else for any special, incidental, indirect, consequential, moral, exemplary or punitive damages whatsoever, regardless of cause, including losses and damages (A) resulting from loss of use, data, reputation, revenue, or profits; (B) based on any theory of liability, including breach of contract or warranty, negligence, or other tortious action; or (C) arising out of or in connection with your use of or access to the Services and Software.
Nothing in the Terms limits or excludes our liability for gross negligence, intentional misconduct of Adobe or its employees, death, or personal injury.
10.2 Our total liability in any matter arising out of or related to the Terms is limited to the greater of (A) US $100; or (B) the aggregate amount that you paid for access to the Services and Software during the three-month period preceding the event giving rise to the liability.
If you violate any of our terms, Adobe has the right to terminate or suspend your account.
11.1 Termination by You You may cancel your subscription and terminate your use of the Services and Software at any time.
Notwithstanding the above, if you are unable to afford fees or costs of arbitration, Adobe will pay them.
For changes to paid offerings that, in Adobe’s reasonable discretion, are detrimental or result in a material diminishment of value to you, we will make reasonable commercial efforts to notify you of such modification, update, or discontinuation.
If we discontinue the Services or Software in its entirety, we will use reasonable commercial efforts to allow you to transition your Content, and we may provide you with a pro rata refund for any unused fees for that Service or Software that you prepaid.
It is your responsibility to make sure your use of the Services and Software is legal or available where you use them.
18.5 Government Terms If you are a U.S. government entity, or if the Terms are or become subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), then the Services and Software, provided under the Terms are “Commercial Product(s) or Commercial Service(s)”, as those terms are defined at 48 C.F.R.
§227.7202-1 through §227.7202-4, as applicable, the Commercial Computer Software and Commercial Computer Software Documentation are licensed to U.S. Federal Government End Users (A) only as Commercial Products and Services; and (B) with only those rights as are granted to all other end users pursuant to the Terms.
Subscription and Cancellation Terms: https://www.adobe.com/legal/subscription-terms.html 2.
Personal content stored in Creative Cloud and Document Cloud for teams or enterprise cloud storage HelpX: https://helpx.adobe.com/enterprise/kb/business-storage.html Shop for For business For education For nonprofits For mobile Experience Cloud Support Resources Adobe Account Adobe Featured products Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Express Photoshop Illustrator Ado Ado Ado Ado Change region∨ on on on on Face Twi Link Inst Copyright © 2024 Adobe.