Prime Video continued to offer compelling original shows, includingnewseasonsforFallout,Reacher,TheBoys,andTheLordof theRings:Ringsof Power,movieslike RoadHouse,TheIdeaof You,andRedOne,livesportslikeThursdayNightFootballandUEFAChampions LeagueinEurope(withtheNBAandNASCARcomingin2025),andnewselection,highlightedbyApple TV+joiningPrimeVideoChannels.Welaunchedaseriesof newKindledevicesthatincludedanewcolor version,alargerScribeoption,andourfastestPaperwhitesever(thecollectionof whichdrovethehighest Kindleunitsalesforasinglequarterinoveradecade).And,wecontinuedtoaddmoreselection,price transparency,andsamedayshippingforAmazonPharmacy.
Whenweofferreviews,whymusttheyallcomefromprofessional“experts?”Customersaregreatresources andwillbebrutallyhonest.Whynotincludecustomerreviewsevenif theysometimesdissuadeapurchase?
Whynotallowoursellerstoalsostoreitemsinourfulfillmentnetwork,enablethoseitemstohavefast,Prime delivery,andfulfillthoseitemsforsellers(aprogramcalledFulfillmentbyAmazon)?
WhydoIhavetobuyaphysicalvideotowatchamovie?WhydoIneedcableorlinearTVtowatch amazingTVshows(PrimeVideo)?
Whycan’tIgetmyPrimeshippingbenefitsonotherwebsitesthanjustAmazon(BuywithPrime)?
Fundamentally,if yourmissionistomakecustomers’livesbetterandeasiereveryday,andyoubelieveevery customerexperiencewillbereinventedbyAI,you’regoingtoinvestdeeplyandbroadlyinAI.That’swhy therearemorethan1,000GenAIapplicationsbeingbuiltacrossAmazon,aimingtomeaningfullychange customerexperiencesinshopping,coding,personalassistants,streamingvideoandmusic,advertising, healthcare, reading, and home devices, to name a few.
Related,whycan’twehelpthehundredsof millionsof peoplewithoutbroadbandconnectivity?
We are planning to add music to our product offering, and over time we believe that other products may be prudent investments.
In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers, and employees.
Information on our net sales is contained in Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Segment Information.” Consumers We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience.
Customers access our offerings through our websites, mobile apps, Alexa, devices, streaming, and physically visiting our stores.
We seek to offer our customers low prices, fast and free delivery, easy- to-use functionality, and timely customer service.
In addition, we offer subscription services such as Amazon Prime, a membership program that includes fast, free shipping on tens of millions of items, access to award-winning movies and series, live sports, and other benefits.
Content Creators We offer programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians, filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content.
Advertisers We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
We believe that the principal competitive factors in our retail businesses include selection, price, and convenience, including fast and reliable fulfillment.
Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, greater brand recognition, and greater control over inputs critical to our various businesses.
They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing, pursue restrictive distribution agreements that restrict our access to supply, direct consumers to their own offerings instead of ours, lock-in potential customers with restrictive terms, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing.
The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser-known businesses to compete against us.
Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and/or greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and in our newer geographic regions.
They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing.
In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, digital content, satellites, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition.
The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known businesses to compete against us.
These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if customers of these offerings experience, or are otherwise impacted by, service disruptions, delays, setbacks, or failures or quality issues.
As international physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and other services grow, competition will intensify, including through adoption of evolving business models.
The People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’s and its affiliates’ businesses and operations in country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation of the internet, IT infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products and services.
For www.amazon.in, we provide certain marketing tools and logistics services to third- party sellers to enable them to sell online and deliver to customers, and we hold an indirect minority interest in an entity that is a third-party seller on the www.amazon.in marketplace.
Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content.
Breach or malfunctioning of the digital rights management technology that we use could subject us to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in our service.
We Could Be Harmed by Data Loss or Other Security Incidents Because we collect, process, store, and transmit large amounts of data, including confidential, classified, sensitive, proprietary, and business and personal information, failure to prevent, detect, or mitigate data loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized access, or other security incidents or vulnerabilities affecting our or our vendors’ or customers’ technology, products, and systems, could: expose us or our customers to a risk of loss, disclosure, or misuse of such information; adversely affect our operating results; result in litigation, liability, or regulatory action (including under laws related to privacy, data use, data protection, data security, network security, and consumer protection); deter customers or sellers from using our stores, products, and services; and otherwise harm our business and reputation.
We use third-party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.
Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject us to liability.
Under these agreements, we provide web services, technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other services, as well as enable sellers to offer products or services through our stores.
We rely on third parties to provide certain Amazon-branded payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing.
We also offer co-branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results if renewed on less favorable terms or terminated.
In addition, we provide regulated services in certain jurisdictions because we enable customers to keep account balances with us and transfer money to third parties, and because we provide services to third parties to facilitate payments on their behalf.
For example, we face a number of open investigations based on claims that aspects of our operations infringe competition or consumer protection rules, including aspects of Amazon’s operation of its stores, including its fulfillment network and Prime, and certain aspects of AWS’s offering of cloud services.
The products offered through our stores include merchandise and content we have purchased for resale and products offered by third-party sellers, and we also manufacture and sell electronic devices and produce media content.
We also offer other services such as compute, storage, and database offerings, fulfillment, advertising, publishing, and digital content subscriptions.
To increase sales of products and services, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery and performance times, increasing selection, producing original content, increasing product categories and service offerings, expanding product information, improving ease of use, improving reliability, and earning customer trust.
We believe that advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost of processing power, data storage and analytics, improved wireless connectivity, and the practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, will continue to improve users’ experience on the internet and increase its ubiquity in people’s lives.
We are also investing in initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices as well as other initiatives including the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
These could affect customer demand for our products and services, our ability to predict growth needs, expenses, and the benefits we gain from new technologies.
Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross.
Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime membership fees, and certain digital media content subscriptions.
Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
We currently expense the majority of the costs associated with the development of our satellite network for global broadband service (including production, launch, and payroll costs, and launch services deposits upon launch).
We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, third-party customer referrals, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives.
To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs.
While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other shipping offers are not included in sales and marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely.
In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, content creators, advertisers, and employees.
We serve consumers through our online and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience.
We offer programs that enable sellers to grow their businesses, sell their products in our stores, and fulfill orders using our services, and programs that allow authors, independent publishers, musicians, filmmakers, Twitch streamers, skill and app developers, and others to publish and sell content.
In addition, we provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
Advertising services - We provide advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
Subscription services - Our subscription sales include fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships and access to content including digital video, audiobooks, digital music, e-books, and other non-AWS subscription services.
Prime memberships provide our customers with access to an evolving suite of benefits that represent a single stand-ready obligation.
Subscriptions are paid for at the time of or in advance of delivering the services.
Revenue from such arrangements is recognized over the subscription period.
Other - Other revenue includes sales related to various other offerings, such as healthcare services, certain licensing and distribution of video content, and shipping services, and our co-branded credit card agreements.
Revenue is recognized when content is licensed or distributed and as or when services are performed.
Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
Digital Video and Music Content We obtain video content, inclusive of episodic television and movies, and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions including both fixed and variable payment schedules.
When the license fee for a specific video or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available to us, we recognize an asset and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed.
We also develop original video content for which the production costs are capitalized and amortized to “Cost of sales” predominantly on an accelerated basis that follows the estimated viewing patterns associated with the content.
We review usage and viewing patterns impacting the amortization of capitalized video content on an ongoing basis and reflect any changes prospectively.
Our produced and licensed video content is primarily monetized together as a unit, referred to as a film group, in each major geography where we offer Amazon Prime memberships.
The total capitalized costs of video, which is primarily released content, and music as of December 31, 2023 and 2024 were $17.4 billion and $19.6 billion.
Total video and music expense includes licensing and production costs associated with content offered within Amazon Prime memberships, and costs associated with digital subscriptions and sold or rented content.
We also have a commercial arrangement primarily for the provision of AWS cloud services, which includes the use of AWS chips.
Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships.
The primary reasons for these transactions were to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively or to expand our customer base.
(2) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content, procure energy, and license software that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets.
(3) Includes asset retirement obligations, the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that are under construction, and liabilities associated with digital media content agreements with initial terms greater than one year.
That complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon has a monopoly in markets for online superstores and marketplace 59 services, and unlawfully maintains those monopolies through anticompetitive practices relating to our pricing policies, advertising practices, the structure of Prime, and promotion of our own products on our website.
The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Amazon Prime Video features and services infringe U.S. Patent Nos.
9,648,388, 10,546,750, and 10,536,751, each entitled “Video-On-Demand Content Delivery System for Providing Video-On-Demand Services to TV Services Subscribers”; 10,028,026, entitled “System for Addressing On-Demand TV Program Content on TV Services Platform of a Digital TV Services Provider”; and 9,973,825, entitled “Dynamic Adjustment of Electronic Program Guide Displays Based on Viewer Preferences for Minimizing Navigation in VOD Program Selection.” The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages.
The complaints allege, among other things, that certain Amazon Prime Video services and features of Amazon devices carrying the Prime Video app infringe Nokia’s patents; some of the complaints additionally allege infringement by Freevee, Twitch, and Amazon voice assistants.
We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a physical and digital format, such as books, videos, games, music, and software.
Digital media content subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage rights are included in “Subscription services.” (2) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a store.
(4) Includes sales of advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
(5) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships, as well as digital video, audiobook, digital music, e-book, and other non-AWS subscription services.
(6) Includes sales related to various other offerings, such as healthcare services, certain licensing and distribution of video content, and shipping services, and our co-branded credit card agreements.