As I think about what matters to customers long-term and therefore to Amazon, there's a lot to like about what we're seeing.
We have a deep partnership with NVIDIA and the broadest selection of NVIDIA instances available, but we've heard loud and clear from customers that they relish better price performance.
Sponsored ads drive the majority of our advertising revenue today, and we see further opportunity there.
Even with this growth, it's important to realize we're at the very beginning of what's possible in our video advertising.
With ads in prime video, the exciting opportunity for brands is the ability to directly connect the advertising that's traditionally been focused on driving awareness, as is the case for TV, to a business outcome, like product sales or subscription signups.
While ads have become the norm in streaming video, we aim to have meaningfully fewer ads than linear TV and other streaming providers, and of course for customers preferring an ad-free experience, we offer that option for an additional $2.99 a month.
More discretionary higher ticket items like computers or electronics or TVs are growing faster for us than what we see elsewhere in the industry, but more slowly than we see in a more robust economy.
These collective developments will benefit customers in the form of better selection, lower prices, and faster delivery speed.
For instance, we're adding even more value to prime, recently introducing free restaurant delivery in many of our GOs, expanding Amazon's pharmacy RXPAST to Medicare members.
This is a benefit that gives subscribers all you can consume access to the most common generic medications for just $5 a month and offering a grocery subscription to help save on grocery items when shopping our US and UK fresh stores.
They take technology and process innovation with a lot of outstanding execution, but we see a path to continuing to lower our costs to serve, which is we've discussed in the past as very meaningful value for customers in our business.
As we lower our costs to serve, we can add more low ASP selection that we can support economically, which coupled with our fast delivery puts Amazon in the consideration set for increasingly more shopping needs for customers.
We see it in how our agenda of AI is helping our customers discover new music and video.
We see it in how it's making Alexa smart and we see it in how our custom silicon and services like Sage maker and bedrock are helping both our internal teams and many thousands of external companies reinvent their customer experiences and businesses.
We also continue to like the progress in Prime Video.
Our storytelling is resonating with our hundreds and millions of monthly viewers worldwide and the 62 Emmy nominations Amazon MGM Studios recently received is another supporting data point.
We recently debuted titles like Fallout, the second most watched original title ever for Prime Video, the idea of you which attracted nearly 50 million viewers worldwide in the first two weeks on Prime Video, and season four of the boys, which reached number one on Prime Video in 165 countries and it's opening two weeks.
When combined with our original films and shows partner streaming services, licensed content and rent or buy titles, Prime Video continues to evolve into the best destination for streaming video.
These include items like non-perishable foods as well as health beauty and personal care items, and prime members continue to increase their shopping frequency while growing their spend on Amazon.
We continue to see opportunities that further expand our offering in areas that are driving growth today like sponsored products, as well as newer areas, like prime video ads.
Prime members globally saved billions of dollars on deals across every product category.
From a profitability perspective, we've historically seen a headwind to operating margin in Q3, driven by Prime Day deals, as well as the marketing spend surrounding the event.
And lastly, we expect an increase in digital content cost quarter of a quarter from the return of our NFL Thursday night football.
And we also are getting a lot of signal from customers and what they need.
But what we found from customers is that they, when you, when you find a offering that is really high value for you and high return, you don't actually spend less, even though you're spending less per unit, you spend less per unit, but it enables you and frees you up to do so much more inventing and building for your customers.
Things like prime video and devices have less investment going on in those quarters.
You know, another example that is regionalizing our inbound network, which is also going to go our cost to serve and get items more close to end users and to diminish the amount of time it takes to get them to customers.
So our stores team is going to continue to work really hard on expanding selection and keeping prices low and speeding up our delivery times and driving our costs to serve down while our Kuiper team is working on how to figure out how to help the 400 to 500 million households around the world who don't have broadband connectivity, get that connectivity and allow them to do a lot of the things we take for granted today with broadband connectivity.
It seems to me like, at least anecdotally, I've seen you lean and more into marketing for that.
And survey work suggests us that there's kind of greater consumer interest in that.
I mean, it makes I don't want to run my own data centers.
I can actually be more cost effective and invent more quickly from my customers if I'm using the cloud.
And that program, you know, allows customers and members to be prime members to be able to get up to 60 common medications for just $5 a month.
And in the emerging countries, as we've said in over the past several quarters, we launched about 10 countries over the last seven years, really focused on, again, expanding that customer experience, building out the prime member benefits while building scalable solutions for customers.
Consumers being careful with their spend, trading down, looking for low-resP products, looking for deals.