In the last few months we've hosted our largest and most successful prime day and prime big deal days ever and helped customers save over $5 billion across more than 50 million deals and for the second year in a row we are on track to deliver at our fastest speeds ever for prime members globally.
The sponsor products we're seeing meaningful growth on a very large base and we see further opportunity in driving even better performance for advertisers by further improving the relevancy the as we show and by providing additional optimization controls.
We're just entering our first broadcast season for prime video advertising following a very strong showing it up front and we're continuing to support brands of all sizes with our generative AI powered creative tools across display, video and audio including our video generator that uses a single product image to curate custom AI generated videos while we're generating a lot of advertising revenue today.
While we have a deep partnership with Nvidia, we've also heard from customers that they want better price performance on their AI workloads.
And in the US, we've added more personalization, the ability to better narrow customer intent and real-time pricing and deal information.
The year-to-year paid membership growth accelerated in Q3 from both the U.S. and globally, helped by our 10th annual Prime Day event in mid-July.
And while these items often have a lower average selling price, the strength in everyday essentials revenue is a positive indicator that customers are turning to us for more of their daily needs.
We see many opportunities to further expand our ads offering in areas that are driving growth today like sponsored products, as well as more recent growth areas like prime video ads.
We are ready to serve customers throughout the season, and I want to thank our teams across Amazon for delivering two very large prime member events in the past four months.
And so we invest in all that upfront in advance of when we can monetize it with customers using the resources.
You know, data centers, for instance, are useful assets for 20 to 30 years.
And I think that one of the differences if you were able to get inside of the economics of the different types of providers here is how well they manage that utilization and that capacity.
Lower cost to serve greater contribution from advertising, improved selection, faster delivery speeds, which help drive consumer demand.
Each of them is on a different point in the path from launching to customer adoption, just scaling towards profitability to then making consistent operating profits.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of consumer behavior and the propensity to be receptive to either lower ASP items or discounts among consumer behavior.
And then the second part would be can you talk a little about some of the strategic initiatives you're building for the long term around capitalizing on low-ray ASP items and the potential shift to more consumables in the base of consumption habits on the platform.
It also led to prime member paid prime member growth accelerating the quarter, which is usually impactful for us.
A lot of our best offers and deliveries are tuned to prime membership and it's a the best deal in retail.
So with all the benefits you get for the subscription price.
I wonder with all the underlying data that you have and leveraging those agent capabilities, if you could provide any perspective on what an next generation Alexa might look like and, you know, your opportunities there to perhaps drive and come on a revenues.
And I think it's going to be very compelling for customers on a price performance basis.
And we just continue to see in every bit of testing and analysis that we do, that the faster that we're able to promise customers that we can get them their items, the more frequently they buy and the more they actually use Amazon for their shopping needs.