Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu Subscriber Agreement Updated: January 27, 2025 We welcome you!
It is our pleasure to provide the Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu services described below for your personal enjoyment in accordance with this Subscriber Agreement (herein, the “Agreement”).
Disney Platform Distribution, Inc., located at 500 South Buena Vista Street, Burbank, CA 91521 (“Disney+”), BAMTech, LLC, located at 50 Vandam Street, 9W, New York, NY 10013 (“ESPN+”), and Hulu, LLC, located at 2500 Broadway, 2nd Floor, Santa Monica, CA 90404 (“Hulu”) are referred to collectively in this Agreement as “we”, “us” and “our”.
The “Disney+ Service”, “ESPN+ Service”, and “Hulu Service” include each Service’s respective website, application, video player and related software, associated content and other services, in any media format or channel, now known or hereafter devised, and any elements thereof.
The Disney+ Services, ESPN+ Services, and Hulu Services are sometimes referred to interchangeably or collectively in this Agreement as the “Services”.
Only residents of the countries and territories where we offer the Services (each Service’s “Territory”) are eligible to subscribe.
You consent to receive electronic communications from each Service you subscribe to and further agree that any notices, agreements, disclosures, and other communications that we send to you electronically will satisfy any applicable legal notification requirements.
When purchasing your subscription(s) to the Service(s), you may be presented with different plans or options (each a “Service Tier”).
Different Service Tiers or other offerings, such as a Bundle (as defined below) or add-ons, may be subject to differences in pricing, usage rules, eligibility, restrictions, features, and device availability.
if you have a monthly subscription and became a paying subscriber on January 31, your payment method would be billed next on February 28), or (ii) due to free trials and other promotional offers, gift card redemptions, credits applied, payment failures, or changes in your subscription or payment method.
We may also offer you the ability to pause your subscription.
Your subscription(s) to the Service(s) may include a free trial.
You also agree that we may charge your payment method on file if you decide to restart your subscription to any of the Services.
If you obtain a subscription to the Services via a third party (e.g., an app store), that subscription is also subject to the third party’s terms, and the provisions in this Agreement concerning subscription purchase, billing, cancellation/refunds, and payment do not apply to that subscription to the extent this Agreement conflicts with the applicable third party’s terms regarding subscription purchase, billing, cancellation/refunds and payments.
For subscriptions obtained via a third party, your billing relationship will be directly with the applicable third party.
We may offer a subscription to the Services bundled with other subscription services, including subscriptions to third-party products and services, e.g., a wireless plan.
Notice of the terms of the bundled subscription options will be provided to you at the time you register.
If a subscription to the Services is offered as part of a bundle with other third-party products and services, this Agreement will govern your use of the Services and any third-party subscriptions, products, and services will be governed by the terms of use issued by those third parties.
We are pleased to offer eligible subscribers, who are over 18, access to certain combinations of two or more of the Disney+ Service, ESPN+ Service, and the Hulu Service you select (each, when subscribed to in this manner, a “Bundled Service”), for a discounted price as compared to the retail price of each plan when purchased separately (each combination, a “ Bundle”).
Your subscription to a Bundle may be subject to certain terms and conditions disclosed to you at the time of purchase.
We may also offer one-time purchases, including to pay per view events and certain Content not otherwise included within your subscription.
We offer different Disney+ and Hulu Service Tiers, some with advertisements and some predominantly without.
Service Tiers described as “no ads” or “ad-free” are generally free of commercial interruptions, with certain exceptions that may change from time to time, including where: (i) streaming rights or other limitations require certain Content to play with ads; or (ii) ads are served in certain live or linear Content or special events (and replays thereof).
Additionally, “no ads” or “ad-free” Service Tiers may contain limited promotional content, such as brief clips about the Bundles (including messages promoting an upgrade thereto) and other content available on any services associated with the Bundles, and branded content, product integrations, or sponsorship messaging.
Please note that if you subscribe to multiple (or a bundle of) Service Tiers, Content from any ad-supported Service Tier will play with ads, while Content from any “no ads” or “ad-free” Service Tier will not (except as described above).
From time to time, we may offer the opportunity to watch additional Content with your Service Tier.
For example, subscribers to a Service Tier that is otherwise limited to on-demand streaming may be able to watch certain live Content.
We offer this additional Content on a promotional basis and retain sole discretion regarding the availability of the Content, eligibility to watch the Content, requirements to access the Content, and whether or not such Content includes advertisements.
Unless otherwise permitted by your Service Tier, you may not share your subscription outside of your household.
If you are subscribed to multiple Services, your Household will be determined based on usage across all Services to which you are subscribed.
We are not responsible for the content or practices of any website or destination other than the Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu site, even if it links to the Disney+, ESPN+ and/or Hulu site and even if the website or destination is operated by a company affiliated or otherwise connected with Disney+, ESPN+ and/or Hulu.
By using the Services, you acknowledge and agree that we are not responsible or liable to you for any content or other materials hosted and served from any website or destination other than the Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu site.
Install and make non-commercial, personal use of the Services; and ii.
stream or temporarily download copyrighted materials, including but not limited to movies, television shows, other entertainment or informational programming, trailers, bonus materials, images, and artwork (the “Disney+ Content”, “ESPN+ Content” or “Hulu Content” or, collectively, the “Content”) that are available to you from the Services.
The purchase of a license to stream or temporarily download any Content does not create an ownership interest in such Content.
rebroadcast, transmit or perform the Content available via the Services; iv.
use the Services for any commercial or business related use or in any commercial establishment or area open to the public (e.g., lobby, bar, restaurant, diner, stadium, casino, club, cafe, theater, etc.)
index, frame, embed or link to the Services in a manner not authorized by us, or to collect information about users for the purpose of sending, facilitating, or encouraging unsolicited bulk or other communications; viii.
You can access the Content with almost any Internet-connected computer or through the Service applications available for certain mobile or other devices (Internet connection required) (each, a “Compatible Device”).
For specifics concerning supported devices, operating systems, web browsers and optimal streaming support please visit your applicable Service’s Help Center.
The Content can be streamed through the Services over an active Internet connection.
The number of concurrent streams available for use may be subject to limitations by Service Tier or type of Content, and such limitations may change from time to time at our discretion and may require device and account verification.
Please visit your applicable Service’s Help Center for more information on the number of concurrent streams permitted based on your Service Tier.
Additionally, we may offer the opportunity to stream Content outside of the Service application, subject to different features and functionality, usage rules, and device compatibility.
The Content may be available for temporary download for offline viewing on certain Compatible Devices based on your Service Tier or type of Content.
The number of temporary downloads available for Compatible Devices, and the length of time that certain temporary downloads remain available to you for offline viewing, may be subject to limitations by Service Tier, and such limitations may change from time to time at our discretion.
Please visit your applicable Service’s Help Center for more information on the limitations on temporary downloads that apply based on your Service Tier or type of Content.
The Content that we make available via any Service Tier is not guaranteed and may be limited and vary over time, including (i) based on rights availability, (ii) based on the terms of your subscription or Service Tier, (iii) based on your location, or (iv) by law.
Certain live Content, including sporting events, may be unavailable due to regional blackouts, device-specific, or similar restrictions, and certain networks may be unavailable in certain local markets.
regional sports networks offered via the Hulu Live Service Tier) by the location of your Home (as defined below).
Your Home will be used to determine which streams are considered “in-home” or “out-of-home”, where relevant to the requirements of your subscription.
The Hulu Live TV Service Tier may provide the ability to record live TV Content to your cloud DVR.
Hulu may limit storage capacity and the amount of time such recordings can be stored on your cloud DVR and available to you.
If your subscription – or your access to any of the Content or networks/channels included in your subscription – is cancelled, suspended, interrupted, or otherwise discontinued, you may lose access to previously-made recordings, even if your subscription or that access resumes or is reinstated.
Other than your usage of the cloud DVR made available to you by Hulu, you may not record, copy, store, or redistribute any Content.
You may only use your cloud DVR to the extent permissible under copyright and other applicable laws.
It is possible that the Services, and/or some or all Content may not be available for streaming or downloading at any given time including (i) during any maintenance or update periods; (ii) any power or server outages; (iii) as a result of war, riots, strikes, social unrest; (iv) technical issues with Content delivery or playback; or (v) as a result of other matters beyond the control of us or third parties.
In our continued assessment of the Services, we may from time to time, with respect to any or all of our users, experiment or otherwise offer certain features or other elements of the Services, including promotions, features, advertisements, user interfaces, plans and pricing.
UPON TERMINATION OF YOUR SUBSCRIPTION(S) TO ANY SERVICES, WHETHER TERMINATED BASED ON OUR DETERMINATION OR AT YOUR REQUEST (OTHER THAN A CANCELLATION OF YOUR SUBSCRIPTION, IN WHICH CASE YOUR SUBSCRIPTION WILL CONTINUE TO THE END OF THE BILLING PERIOD), YOU WILL LOSE THE RIGHT TO ACCESS STREAMED OR DOWNLOADED CONTENT THROUGH SUCH SERVICE(S).
We aspire for the Services to provide exceptional sources of entertainment for you and your family.
We strive to provide a variety of Content for our diverse group of users to enjoy.
Also, content ratings, types, genres, categories, and/or descriptions are provided as suggestions to help with navigation and for informational purposes.
We use various technologies to provide you with an optimal viewing experience.
For example, HD quality is available for certain Disney+, ESPN+, and Hulu Content and 4K Ultra HD quality is available for certain Disney+ and Hulu Content.
That said, the playback quality of Content, including resolution, may be affected by the format of the Content, your location, the speed, bandwidth and specific terms of your Internet service, and the devices and/or equipment used, among other factors.
The time it takes you to begin viewing Content will vary based on a number of factors, including your location, Internet bandwidth, the number of devices simultaneously connecting to the same network, the Content you have selected, and the configuration of the device you are using.
The Services may integrate, be integrated into, or be provided in connection with third-party services, content, and devices.
You should read the terms of use, agreements, privacy policies, and safety information that apply to such third-party services, content, and devices.
TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, DISNEY+, ESPN+, HULU, AND THEIR AFFILIATES, LICENSORS, AGENTS, AND SERVICE PROVIDERS (COLLECTIVELY.
THE “DISNEY+, ESPN+, AND HULU PARTIES”) EACH EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, AVAILABILITY, SECURITY, COMPATIBILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY AND NONINFRINGEMENT, AND THEIR EQUIVALENTS UNDER THE LAWS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
YOU ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE DISNEY+, ESPN+, AND HULU PARTIES DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE CONTENT OR THE SERVICES WILL BE WITHOUT ERRORS, VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS.
THE DISNEY+, ESPN+, AND HULU PARTIES DO NOT WARRANT OR OTHERWISE STATE THAT THE CONTENT OR THE SERVICES WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
YOU AND NOT THE DISNEY+, ESPN+, AND HULU PARTIES ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION OCCASIONED BY USE OF THE CONTENT AND THE SERVICES.
Hulu Subscriber Agreement Updated: October 21, 2024 We welcome you!
It is our pleasure to provide the Hulu services described below for your personal enjoyment and entertainment in accordance with this Subscriber Agreement (herein, the “Agreement”).
The “Services” include the Hulu website, application, video player and related software, associated content and other services, in any media format or channel, now known or hereafter devised.
Registration and Access.Only individuals that have registered for a Hulu account and/or MyDisney account (if available), provide certain information (e.g., a valid email address), and agree to this Agreement are eligible to use the relevant Services.
For clarity, you consent to receive electronic communications from the Services you subscribe to and further agree that any notices, agreements, disclosures, and other communications that we send to you electronically will satisfy any applicable legal notification requirements.
When purchasing your subscription to the Services, you may be presented with different plans or options (each a “Service Tier”).
Different Service Tiers or other offerings, such as Add-ons, Live TV, or the Disney Bundle (as defined below), may be subject to differences in pricing, usage rules, eligibility, restrictions, features, and device availability.
if you have a monthly subscription and became a paying subscriber on January 31, your payment method would be billed next on February 28), or (ii) due to free trials and other promotional offers, gift card redemptions, credits applied, or changes in your subscription or payment method.
We may also offer you the ability to pause your subscription for a specified period of time.
Your subscription to the Services may begin with a free trial.
We may share your payment information within The Walt Disney Company (e.g., Disney+, ESPN+, Marvel, Pixar, etc.
You also agree that we may charge your payment method on file if you decide to restart your Hulu subscription.
If you obtain a Hulu subscription via a third party (e.g., an app store), that subscription is also subject to the third party’s terms, and the provisions in this Agreement concerning subscription purchase, billing, cancellation/refunds, and payment do not apply to that subscription to the extent this Agreement conflicts with the applicable third party’s terms regarding subscription purchase, billing, cancellation/refunds and payments.
For subscriptions obtained via a third party, your billing relationship will be directly with the applicable third party.
We may offer a Hulu subscription bundled with other subscription services, including subscriptions to third-party products and services, e.g., a wireless plan.
Notice of the terms of the bundled subscription options will be provided to you at the time you register.
Third-party subscriptions, products, and services are governed by terms of use issued by those third parties.
We are pleased to offer eligible subscribers, who are over 18, access to certain combinations of two or more of the Hulu Service Tier(s) and the Disney+ and ESPN+ service(s) you select (each, when subscribed to in this manner, a “Bundled Service”), for a discounted price as compared to the retail price of each plan when purchased separately (the “Disney Bundle”).
By purchasing the Disney Bundle and agreeing to this Agreement, you also agree to the Disney+ Subscriber Agreement, which is incorporated by reference and governs your use of the Disney+ and/or ESPN+ service(s) you select and can be found at www.disneyplus.com/legal/subscriber-agreement.
We offer different Hulu Service Tiers, some with advertisements and some without.
Service Tiers that are “without ads” are free of commercial interruptions.
However, such Service Tiers may still contain limited promotional content, such as brief clips about the Disney Bundle (including messages promoting an upgrade thereto) and other content available on any services associated with the Disney Bundle, and branded content or sponsorship messaging.
In addition, Service Tiers without ads may offer live Content (as defined below) or special events (and replays and additional viewings thereof) that contain traditional commercial breaks.
For example, if you subscribe to both the Live TV Service Tier and another Service Tier featuring Content on-demand without advertisements, you will still see advertisements while streaming Content from the Live TV Service Tier.
For clarity, due to streaming rights, select content within Service Tiers that are “without ads” may play interruption-free with a short ad break before and after each episode.
From time to time, we may offer the opportunity to watch Content that is not included in your Service Tier.
For example, subscribers to a Service Tier that is otherwise limited to on-demand streaming may be able to watch certain live Content.
We offer this additional Content on a promotional basis and retain sole discretion regarding the availability of the Content, eligibility to watch the Content, and requirements to access the Content.
m. Account Sharing.Unless otherwise permitted by your Service Tier, you may not share your subscription outside of your household.
We are not responsible for the content or practices of any website or destination other than the Hulu site, even if it links to the Hulu site and even if the website or destination is operated by a company affiliated or otherwise connected with Hulu.
By using the Services, you acknowledge and agree that we are not responsible or liable to you for any content or other materials hosted and served from any website or destination other than the Hulu site.
Install and make non-commercial, personal use of the Services; and ii.
stream or temporarily download copyrighted materials, including but not limited to movies, television shows, other entertainment or informational programming, trailers, bonus materials, images, and artwork (collectively, the “Content”) that are available to you from the Services.
The purchase of a license to stream or temporarily download any Content does not create an ownership interest in such Content.
rebroadcast, transmit or perform the Content available via the Services; iv.
use the Services for any commercial or business related use or in any commercial establishment or area open to the public (e.g., lobby, bar, restaurant, diner, stadium, casino, club, cafe, theater, etc.)
index, frame, embed or link to the Services in a manner not authorized by us, or to collect information about users for the purpose of sending, facilitating, or encouraging unsolicited bulk or other communications; viii.
You can access the Content with almost any Internet- connected computer or through the Hulu application available for certain mobile or other devices (Internet connection required) (each, a “Compatible Device”).
For specifics concerning supported devices, operating systems, web browsers and optimal streaming support please visit our Help Center.
The Content can be streamed through the Services over an active Internet connection.
The number of concurrent streams available for use may be subject to limitations by Service Tier, and such limitations may change from time to time at our discretion and may require device and account verification.
Please visit our Help Center for more information on the number of concurrent streams permitted based on your Service Tier.
Additionally, we may offer the opportunity to stream Content outside of the Hulu application, subject to different features and functionality, usage rules, and device compatibility.
The Content may be available for temporary download for offline viewing on certain Compatible Devices based on your Service Tier or type of Content.
The number of temporary downloads available for Compatible Devices, and the length of time that certain temporary downloads remain available to you for offline viewing, may be subject to limitations by Service Tier, and such limitations may change from time to time at our discretion.
Please visit our Help Center for more information on the limitations on temporary downloads that apply based on your Service Tier or type of Content.
The Services are not available to subscribers outside of the United States, and the content that we make available may be limited by law or by the rights that certain of our third-party content providers grant to us.
The periods during which you can view each piece of Content will vary based on the rights availability of such Content and the terms of your subscription.
For example, your access to regional sports networks, if any, will be determined by your Home (as defined below), even if you access the Services from outside your Home.
Moreover, your access to live Content from local affiliates, if any, will depend on the location of your device at the time you access the Services.
If you subscribe to the Live TV Service Tier, make sure to designate a residential, non-mobile internet network (“Home”) when you set your home location as part of the registration and access process.
Your Home will be used to determine which streams are considered “in-home” or “out-of-home”, where relevant to the requirements of your subscription.
In addition, for uninterrupted enjoyment of the Live TV Service Tier, you should access the Services on your mobile device from your Home location every 30 days, or such other period described in our Help Center.
The Live TV Service Tier may provide the ability to record live TV Content to your cloud DVR.
Hulu may limit storage capacity and the amount of time such recordings can be stored on your cloud DVR and available to you.
If your subscription – or your access to any of the Content or networks/channels included in your subscription – is cancelled, suspended, interrupted, or otherwise discontinued, you may lose access to previously-made recordings, even if your subscription or that access resumes or is reinstated.
Other than your usage of the cloud DVR made available to you by Hulu, you may not record, copy, store, or redistribute any Content.
You may only use your cloud DVR to the extent permissible under copyright and other applicable laws.
It is possible that the Services and/or some or all Content may not be available for streaming or downloading at any given time including (i) during any maintenance or update periods; (ii) any power or server outages; (iii) as a result of war, riots, strikes, social unrest; or (iv) as a result of other matters beyond the control of us or third parties.
In our continued assessment of the Services, we may from time to time, with respect to any or all of our users, experiment or otherwise offer certain features or other elements of the Services, including promotions, features, advertisements, user interfaces, plans and pricing.
You agree that we will not be liable to you or to any third party for any such restriction, suspension, or termination of your access to your Hulu account or the Content.
UPON TERMINATION OF YOUR HULU ACCOUNT, WHETHER TERMINATED BASED ON OUR DETERMINATION OR AT YOUR REQUEST (OTHER THAN A CANCELLATION OF YOUR SUBSCRIPTION, IN WHICH CASE YOUR SUBSCRIPTION WILL CONTINUE TO THE END OF THE BILLING PERIOD), YOU WILL LOSE THE RIGHT TO ACCESS STREAMED OR DOWNLOADED CONTENT THROUGH THE SERVICES.
We aspire for the Services to provide exceptional sources of entertainment for you and your family.
We strive to provide a variety of Content for our diverse group of users to enjoy.
Also, content ratings, types, genres, categories, and/or descriptions are provided as suggestions to help with navigation and for informational purposes.
We use various technologies to provide you with an optimal viewing experience.
For example, HD and 4K Ultra HD quality is available for certain Content.
That said, the playback quality of Content, including resolution, may be affected by the format of the Content, your location, the speed, bandwidth and specific terms of your Internet service, and the devices and/or equipment used, among other factors.
The time it takes you to begin viewing Content will vary based on a number of factors, including your location, Internet bandwidth, the number of devices simultaneously connecting to the same network, the Content you have selected, and the configuration of the device you are using.
The Services may integrate, be integrated into, or be provided in connection with third-party services, content, and devices.
You should read the terms of use, agreements, privacy policies, and safety information that apply to such third-party services, content, and devices.
TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, HULU AND ITS AFFILIATES, LICENSORS, AGENTS, AND SERVICE PROVIDERS (COLLECTIVELY, THE “HULU PARTIES”) EACH EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, AVAILABILITY, SECURITY, COMPATIBILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY AND NONINFRINGEMENT, AND THEIR EQUIVALENTS UNDER THE LAWS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
YOU ALSO ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE HULU PARTIES DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE CONTENT OR THE SERVICES WILL BE WITHOUT ERRORS, VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS.
THE HULU PARTIES DO NOT WARRANT OR OTHERWISE STATE THAT THE CONTENT OR THE SERVICES WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
YOU AND NOT THE HULU PARTIES ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION OCCASIONED BY USE OF THE CONTENT AND THE SERVICES.