Legal Terms and Conditions of Use Intellectual Property Policy Privacy Policy User Guidelines Paid Subscription Terms Spotify Terms of Use Last Updated: August 26, 2025 1.
Introduction Please read these Terms of Use ("Terms") carefully as they govern your use of (which includes access to) Spotify's personalized services for streaming music and other content, including all of our websites and software applications that incorporate or link to these Terms (collectively, the "Spotify Service") and any music, videos, podcasts, audiobooks, or other material that is made available through the Spotify Service ("Content").
To learn more about how Spotify collects, uses, shares and protects your personal data, please see the Spotify Privacy Policy.
By signing up for, or otherwise using, the Spotify Service, you agree to these Terms.
If you do not agree to these Terms, then you must not use the Spotify Service or access any Content.
Additionally, in order to use the Spotify Service and access any Content, you represent that: you reside in the United States, and any registration and account information that you submit to Spotify is true, accurate, and complete, and you agree to keep it that way at all times.
In certain markets, Spotify may offer primary account holders the opportunity to allow access to a kids experience as part of a family subscription.
By enabling such access, the primary account holder confirms they are the legal guardian of any user accessing the experience and that they give permission for the younger user to use Spotify.
Certain Spotify Service options are provided free of charge, while other options require payment before they can be accessed ("Paid Subscriptions").
We may also offer special promotional plans, memberships, or services, including offerings of third-party products and services.
Trials From time to time, we or others on our behalf may offer trials of Paid Subscriptions for a specified period without payment or at a reduced rate ("Trial").
By using a Spotify Service via a Trial, you agree to the Spotify Paid Subscription Terms.
Third-party applications, devices and open source software The Spotify Service may be integrated with, or may otherwise interact with, third-party applications, websites, and services ("Third-Party Applications") and third-party personal computers, mobile handsets, tablets, wearable devices, speakers, and other devices ("Devices").
Service limitations and modifications We use reasonable efforts to keep the Spotify Service operational and to provide you with a personalized, immersive audio experience.
However, Spotify reserves the right to change our Spotify Service offerings and their availability from time to time, without notice or liability to you.
For example: The Spotify Service may experience temporary interruptions due to technical difficulties, maintenance or testing, or updates, including those required to reflect changes in relevant laws and regulatory requirements.
We aim to evolve and improve the Spotify Service constantly, and we may modify, suspend, or stop (permanently or temporarily) providing all or part of the Spotify Service (including particular functions, features, subscription plans, and promotional offerings).
Our dynamic content offering is constantly evolving and adapting to the needs of the Spotify community.
Spotify has no obligation to provide any specific content through the Spotify Service, and Spotify or the applicable owners may remove access to particular songs, videos, podcasts, audiobooks and other Content without notice.
Spotify may reclaim, or require you to change, your username for any reason.
Your rights to use the Spotify Service Access to the Spotify Service Subject to your compliance with these Terms (including any other applicable terms and conditions), we grant to you limited, non-exclusive, revocable permission to make personal, non-commercial use of the Spotify Service and the Content (collectively, "Access").
This Access shall remain in effect unless and until terminated by you or Spotify.
You agree that you will not redistribute, sell or transfer the Spotify Service or the Content.
Spotify's proprietary rights The Spotify Service and the Content are the property of Spotify or Spotify's licensors.
Payments and cancellation Paid Subscriptions You may purchase a Paid Subscription directly from Spotify or through a third party either by: paying a subscription fee plus applicable taxes in advance on a monthly basis or some other recurring interval disclosed to you prior to your purchase; or prepayment giving you access to the Spotify Service for a specific time period ("Prepaid Period").
If you purchase access to a Paid Subscription through a third party, separate terms and conditions with such third party may apply to your use of the Spotify Service in addition to these Terms.
If you purchase Audiobook Content outside of your Paid Subscription, your purchase will be governed by the Audiobook Purchase Terms and Conditions.
Price and tax changes Spotify may from time to time make changes to Paid Subscriptions, including recurring subscription fees, the Prepaid Period (for periods not yet paid), or Codes, and will communicate any price changes to you in advance.
Billing and cancellation Unless otherwise indicated (for example, if you have signed up for a Prepaid Period), Paid Subscriptions continue indefinitely until cancelled.
If you have purchased a Paid Subscription using a Code, your subscription will automatically terminate at the end of the period stated with your Code, or when there is an insufficient prepaid balance to pay for the Spotify Service.
Unless we inform you otherwise, we will allow you to retain access to the Paid Subscription for the remainder of the then-current billing period, after which we will downgrade your account to the free version of the Spotify Service.
User guidelines We've established guidelines for using the Spotify Service, to make sure the Spotify Service stays enjoyable for everyone ("Spotify User Guidelines").
A Brand may follow users and create and share playlists, provided that the Brand does not take any action that implies an endorsement or commercial relationship between the Brand and the followed user, artist, songwriter, or any other person, unless the Brand has independently obtained the rights to imply such an endorsement.
Content and Intellectual Property Rights User Content The content you post on the Spotify Service Spotify users may post, upload, or otherwise contribute content to the Spotify Service ("User Content").
For the avoidance of doubt, User Content includes all information, materials, messages or other communications, and any other content that is added, created, uploaded, submitted, distributed, or posted to or through the Spotify Service by users.
In posting or sharing User Content or other information on the Spotify Service, please keep in mind that, depending on the method of posting or sharing, content and other information may be privately transmitted to one or more users or it may be publicly accessible, and may be used and re-shared by others on the Spotify Service and across the web, so please use caution in posting or sharing on the Spotify Service, and be mindful of your account settings.
Spotify reserves the right to remove or disable access to any User Content for any or no reason.
Licenses that you grant to us User Content You retain ownership of your User Content when you post it to the Spotify Service.
However, in order for us to make your User Content available on the Spotify Service and to provide you with certain features and functions, we do need a limited license from you to that User Content.
Accordingly, you hereby grant to Spotify a non-exclusive, transferable, sublicensable, royalty- free, fully paid, irrevocable, worldwide license to reproduce, make available, perform and display, translate, modify, create derivative works from, distribute, and otherwise use any such User Content through any medium, whether alone or in combination with other Content or materials, in any manner and by any means, method or technology, whether now known or hereafter created, in connection with the Spotify Service.
Your Device You also grant to us the right (1) to allow the Spotify Service to use the processor, bandwidth, and storage hardware on your Device in order to facilitate the operation of the Spotify Service, and (2) to provide advertising and other information to you, and (3) to allow our business partners to do the same.
In Understanding recommendations on Spotify, you can learn more about how our recommendation systems work, including how and why certain content is displayed to you.
In any part of the Spotify Service, the Content that you access, including its selection and placement, may be influenced by commercial considerations, including Spotify's agreements with third parties.
Some Content licensed by, provided to, created by, or otherwise made available by Spotify (e.g., podcasts or shows) may incorporate advertising or other promotional messages.
If you believe that any Content infringes your copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights, please see the Spotify Intellectual Property Policy.
By using Spotify Community, you agree to the Community Terms.
If you have any questions concerning the Spotify Service or these Terms (including any additional Spotify terms and conditions incorporated herein), please contact Spotify Customer Service by visiting the About Us section of our website.
Problems and Disputes Suspending and terminating the Spotify Service These Terms will continue to apply to you until terminated by either you or Spotify.
You may terminate these Terms at any time, in which case you may not continue accessing or using the Spotify Service.
The following sections shall survive termination: Sections 2 (The Spotify Service), 3 (Your Use of the Spotify Service) (except as set forth therein), 4 (Content and Intellectual Property Rights), 6 (Problems and Disputes), 7 (About These Terms), as well as any other sections of these Terms that, either explicitly or by their nature, must remain in effect even after termination of these Terms.
You agree to comply with any applicable third-party terms, when using the Spotify Service.
Spotify will pay all filing, administration, case-management, hearing, and arbitrator fees ("Arbitration Fees") if it initiates an arbitration.
You and Spotify agree that arbitration should be cost effective for all parties.
Your use of the Spotify Service following any changes to these Terms will constitute your acceptance of such changes.
Premium Subscribers who do not wish to continue using the Spotify Service under the updated Terms must close their Spotify account prior to their renewal date or thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, whichever occurs first.
As noted above, other terms and conditions, guidelines and policies governing use of the Spotify Service are incorporated herein by reference.
These include the following (a) additional terms and conditions related to specific services offered on the Spotify Service: the Spotify Paid Subscription Terms; the Spotify Audiobook Purchase Terms and Conditions; Spotify's Card Terms; and Spotify Support Community Terms; and (b) guidelines and policies: the Spotify Privacy Policy; the Spotify User Guidelines; the Spotify Platform Rules and the Spotify Intellectual Property Policy.
COMPANY About Jobs For the Record COMMUNITIES For Artists Developers Advertising Investors Vendors USEFUL LINKS Support Web Player Free Mobile App Import your music SPOTIFY PLANS Premium Individual Premium Duo Premium Family Premium Student Spotify Free Audiobooks Access USA © 2025 Spotify AB Legal Safety & Privacy Center Privacy Policy Cookies About Ads Accessibility Notice at Collection