Digital Video and Music Content Included in “Other assets” on our consolidated balance sheets are the total capitalized costs of video, which is primarily released content, and music, which as of December 31, 2024 and September 30, 2025 were $19.6 billion and $21.5 billion.
Total video and music expense was $5.0 billion and $5.5 billion in Q3 2024 and Q3 2025, and $14.2 billion and $15.7 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2025.
Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of AWS services and Amazon Prime memberships.
We also have a commercial arrangement primarily for the provision of AWS cloud services, which includes the use of AWS chips.
(2) Includes unconditional purchase obligations related to long-term agreements to acquire and license digital media content, procure energy, acquire property and equipment, and license software that are not reflected on the consolidated balance sheets.
(3) Includes asset retirement obligations, the estimated timing and amounts of payments for rent and tenant improvements associated with build-to-suit lease arrangements that are under construction, and liabilities associated with digital media content agreements with initial terms greater than one year.
Some of the cases include allegations that Amazon has a monopoly in markets for online superstores, marketplace services, or intermediation services and that we unlawfully engage in anticompetitive practices relating to our pricing policies, selection of the Featured Offers, use of seller data, advertising practices, the structure of Prime, and promotion of our own products on our website.
We leverage our retail infrastructure to offer a wide selection of consumable and durable goods that includes media products available in both a physical and digital format, such as books, videos, games, music, and software.
Digital media content subscriptions that provide unlimited viewing or usage rights are included in “Subscription services.” (2) Includes product sales where our customers physically select items in a store.
(4) Includes sales of advertising services to sellers, vendors, publishers, authors, and others, through programs such as sponsored ads, display, and video advertising.
(5) Includes annual and monthly fees associated with Amazon Prime memberships, as well as digital video, audiobook, digital music, e-book, and other non-AWS subscription services.
(6) Includes sales related to various other offerings (such as shipping services, healthcare services, and certain licensing and distribution of video content) and our co-branded credit card agreements.
These could affect customer demand for our products and services, our ability to forecast growth needs, expenses, and benefits from new technologies.
Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross.
Service sales primarily represent third-party seller fees, which includes commissions and any related fulfillment and shipping fees, AWS sales, advertising services, Amazon Prime membership fees, and certain digital media content subscriptions.
Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers, including expenditures related to initiatives to build and deploy innovative and efficient software and electronic devices and the development of a satellite network for global broadband service and autonomous vehicles for ride-hailing services.
We currently expense the majority of the costs associated with the development of our satellite network for global broadband service (including production, launch, and payroll costs, and launch services deposits upon launch).
We direct customers to our stores primarily through a number of marketing channels, such as our sponsored search, third-party customer referrals, social and online advertising, television advertising, and other initiatives.
To the 28 Table of Contents extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing costs.
While costs associated with Amazon Prime membership benefits and other shipping offers are not included in sales and marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely.
Some of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and/or greater brand recognition, particularly with our newly-launched products and services and in our newer geographic regions.
They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing.
In addition, new and enhanced technologies, including search, web and infrastructure computing services, practical applications of artificial intelligence and machine learning, digital content, satellites, and electronic devices continue to increase our competition.
The internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, which enhances the ability of new, smaller, or lesser known businesses to compete against us.
These offerings, which can present new and difficult technology challenges, may subject us to claims if customers of these offerings experience, or are otherwise impacted by, service disruptions, delays, setbacks, or failures or quality issues.
As international physical, e-commerce, and omnichannel retail, cloud services, and other services grow, competition will intensify, including through adoption of evolving business models.
The People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and India regulate Amazon’s and its affiliates’ businesses and operations in country through regulations and license requirements that may restrict (i) foreign investment in and operation of the internet, IT infrastructure, data centers, retail, delivery, and other sectors, (ii) internet content, and (iii) the sale of media and other products and services.
For www.amazon.in, we provide certain marketing tools and logistics services to third-party sellers to enable them to sell online and deliver to customers, and we hold an indirect minority interest in an entity that is a third-party seller on the www.amazon.in marketplace.
Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights management technology to control access to digital content.
Breach or malfunctioning of the digital rights management technology that we use could subject us to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their content in our service.
We Could Be Harmed by Data Loss or Other Security Incidents Because we collect, process, store, and transmit large amounts of data, including confidential, classified, sensitive, proprietary, and business and personal information, failure to prevent, detect, or mitigate data loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized access, or other security incidents or vulnerabilities affecting our or our vendors’ or customers’ technology, products, and systems, could: expose us or our customers to a risk of loss, disclosure, or misuse of such information; adversely affect our operating results; result in litigation, liability, or regulatory action (including under laws related to privacy, data use, data protection, data security, network security, and consumer protection); deter customers or sellers from using our stores, products, and services; and otherwise harm our business and reputation.
We use third-party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.
Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject us to liability.
Under these agreements, we provide web services, technology, fulfillment, computing, digital storage, and other services, as well as enable sellers to offer products or services through our stores.
For certain payment 42 Table of Contents methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability.
We rely on third parties to provide certain Amazon-branded payment methods and payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing.
We also offer co-branded credit card programs, which could adversely affect our operating results if renewed on less favorable terms or terminated.
In addition, we provide regulated services in certain jurisdictions because we enable customers to keep account balances with us and transfer money to third parties, and because we provide services to third parties to facilitate payments on their behalf.
For example, we face a number of open investigations based on claims that aspects of our operations infringe competition or consumer protection rules, including aspects of Amazon’s operation of its stores, including its fulfillment network and Prime, and certain aspects of AWS’s offering of cloud services.