Help Center Subscribe to Netflix Log in Netflix Terms of Service Netflix provides a personalized, registered service that allows members to access entertainment content ("Netflix Content") online using devices such as Internet-connected televisions and computers ("Netflix- Enabled Devices").
These Terms of Use apply to your use of our Services.
“Netflix Services”, “Our Services” or “Services” in these Terms of Use means the Personalized Services provided by Netflix to discover or access Netflix Content and includes any features, recommendations and reviews, our website, user interface, and any content and software related to our Services.
In these Terms of Use, “you” means a member who has created a Netflix account and owns the payment method to be billed.
To use the Netflix service, you must have Internet access and a Netflix-enabled device and provide us with one or more payment methods.
Subscription plans include interruptions due to commercials and other types of advertising messagesand advertising format.
All subscription plans include branded content, sponsored advertising,It may include limited commercial content, such as advertising for Netflix content and other information about Netflix products and services.
We may also provide you with live streaming, special events (including recorded), or adding new features.
Such content and new features may include ads regardless of your subscription plan.
Some subscriptions are provided through third parties in conjunction with the provision of third- party products and services.
In addition, conditions and restrictions may vary depending on the subscription plan, but they will be notified to you at the time of registration or when you contact us for any other contact.
Payment method: To use the Netflix service, you must provide one or more payment methods.
To the extent permitted by applicable law, payments are non-refundable and will not be refunded or credited in the middle of the membership period or if there is any unused Netflix content.
Change pricing and subscription plans: Netflix may change the fees of our Subscription Plans and our Services from time to time.
The Netflix Services and the content accessed through such Services are limited to your personal, non-commercial use and may not be shared with anyone outside your household unless permitted by your subscription plan.
During your Netflix membership period, Netflix grants you a limited, non- exclusive, non-transferable right to access the Netflix Services and Content.
You may only access Netflix Content in the country where you opened your account and in the geographic location where we have provided you with a subscription plan and licensed to that Content.
The available content varies depending on the geographic location and will change from time to time.
Some Netflix content may not be available on the ad-supported subscription plan.
The number of devices that you can watch at the same time depends on your subscription plan, and will be specified on the Account page.
We regularly update the Netflix Services (including the Netflix Content).Therefore, we cannot guarantee that certain content will be available on the Netflix Services at any time.In addition, we continuously conduct tests on various elements of our Services, including our website, user interface and promotional features.
Depending on your subscription plan, you can temporarily download some Netflix content on certain supported devices and watch it offline ("Offline Viewing Movies").
Even if you connect to the Internet in a country where you cannot stream offline views, you will not be able to play those offline views while you stay in that country.
You agree to use the Netflix Services (including all related features) in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, and any other restrictions on the use of the Services or its content.
You agree not to do so unless expressly permitted by us: (i) archive, reproduce, distribute, falsify, exhibit, perform, publish, license, create derivative works, make a sale, offer, or use of any content and information contained in or obtained from the Netflix Services or from the Services; (ii) circumvent, remove, modify, disable, degrade, block, hide, or interfere with any content protection or other elements of the Netflix Services (such as graphical user interface, advertising or advertising features, copyright notices, trademarks, etc.
The quality of Netflix content may vary from device to device, and may be affected by a variety of factors, including your location, the bandwidth available, and internet connection speed.
The availability of HD, UHD and HDR depends on your Internet service and device capabilities.The quality of spatial audio also depends on the device capacity of the customer.In addition, not all content is available in spatial audio, HD, UHD, HDR, or any other format, and not all subscription plans will be able to receive content in all formats.
The minimum connection speed for HD quality (defined as 720p or higher in resolution) is 3.0 Mbps per stream.
A connection speed of 5.0 Mbps per stream is recommended for receiving full-HD quality (defined as 1080p or higher resolution).
A connection speed of at least 15.0 Mbps per stream is recommended for receiving UHD quality (defined as 4K or higher in resolution).
You understand that your use of the Services may require third-party software that is subject to a third- party license.
You agree that you may automatically receive an updated version of the Netflix Software and related third-party software.
Customer support: For more information about our Services and its features, or support for your account, please visit the Netflix Help Center on netflix.com.
Changes to the Terms of Use: Netflix may change these Terms of Use from time to time.
Limitation of warranty and liability: The Netflix service is "as is" and is provided without warranty.
On the Netflix Services, you may see third-party advertising and other commercial content.
Force Majeure: Netflix services and some Netflix content may temporarily not be able to be streamed or downloaded for any reason beyond our reasonable control.