Netflix Terms of Use | Netflix Help Center Netflix provides a personalized subscription service that allows our members to access entertainment content ("Netflix content") over the Internet on certain Internet-connected TVs, computers and other devices ("Netflix ready devices").
The Netflix service is provided to you by Netflix International B.V.
As used in these Terms of Use, "Netflix service", "our service" or "the service" means the personalized digital content service provided by Netflix for discovering and accessing Netflix content, including all features and functionalities, recommendations and reviews, our websites, and user interfaces, as well as all content and software associated with our service.
To use the Netflix service you must have Internet access and a Netflix ready device, and provide us with one or more Payment Methods.
We may offer a number of subscription plans, including subscriptions offered by third parties in conjunction with the provision of their own products and services.
Some subscription plans may have differing conditions and limitations, which will be disclosed at your sign-up or in other communications made available to you.
To use the Netflix service you must provide one or more Payment Methods.
Payments are non-refundable and we do not provide refunds or credits for any partial membership periods or unused Netflix content.
We may change our subscription plans and the price of our service from time to time in the event of changes to the cost elements that affect the price of our service.
The Netflix service and any content accessed through the service are for your personal and non- commercial use only and may not be shared with individuals beyond your household unless otherwise allowed by your subscription plan.
During your Netflix membership we grant you a limited, non- exclusive, non-transferable right to access the Netflix service and Netflix content.
You may access the Netflix content primarily within the country in which you have established your account and only in geographic locations where we offer our service and have licensed such content.
The content that may be available will vary by geographic location and will change from time to time.
The number of devices on which you may simultaneously watch depends on your chosen subscription plan and is specified on the "Account" page.
The Netflix service, including the Netflix content, is regularly updated.
We therefore do not guarantee that particular content will be available on the Netflix service at any given time.
We may give you the opportunity to watch live or special events (including replays of such content) or to enjoy new additional features.
Such content and new features may contain commercial breaks and other types of commercial messages and advertising formats (“Advertisements”).
Our service may also contain limited commercial content, such as branded content or sponsorship messaging, promos for Netflix content or information about other Netflix goods or services.
In addition, we continually test various aspects of our service, including our websites, user interfaces and promotional features.
Some Netflix content is available for temporary download and offline viewing on certain supported devices ("Offline Titles").
Some Offline Titles may not be playable in certain countries and if you go online in a country where you would not be able to stream that Offline Title, the Offline Title will not be playable while you are in that country.
The quality of the display of the Netflix content may vary from device to device, and may be affected by a variety of factors, such as your location, the bandwidth available through and/or speed of your Internet connection.
HD, Ultra HD and HDR availability is subject to your Internet service and device capabilities.
Not all content is available in spatial audio or in all formats, such as HD, Ultra HD and HDR, and not all subscription plans allow you to receive content in all formats.
A connection speed of at least 5.0 Mbps per stream is recommended to receive Full HD video quality (defined as a resolution of 1080p or higher).
A connection speed of at least 15.0 Mbps per stream is recommended to receive Ultra HD video quality (defined as a resolution of 4K or higher).
You acknowledge that the use of the service may require third party software that is subject to third party licenses.
You agree that you may automatically receive updated versions of the Netflix software and related third-party software.
To find more information about our service and its features or if you need assistance with your account, please visit the Netflix Help Center, which is accessible through the netflix.com website.
Netflix may, from time to time, change these Terms of Use (i) in case of changes to the Netflix service, (ii) to ensure compliance with applicable laws and/or reflect changes in relevant laws and regulatory requirements, (iii) to make these Terms of Use clearer or easier to understand, (iv) if we intend to restructure or reorganise our business, and/or (v) for technological or security reasons.