Terms of Use of Netflix Netflix provides a personalized subscription service that allows our users to access entertaining content ("Nread content") over the Internet on certain TVs, computers and other Internet-connected devices ("devices supporting the Netflix application").
Netflix provides you with Netflix International B.V.
As stated in these Terms of Use, “Nez Netflix” service, or “service” means a personalized service provided by Netflix to search and access to Netflix content, including all features and functionality, recommendations and reviews, our websites and user interfaces, as well as all content and software related to our service.
The term "you" in these Terms of use means the user who created a Netflix account and the payment method of which is used to pay for the service.
We can offer several subscription plans, which include subscriptions offered by third parties, together with the provision of their own services and products.
Some subscription plans may have different conditions and restrictions that will be disclosed during registration or in other messages available to you.
To use Netflix, you must specify one or more Payment Methods.
In cases permitted by applicable law, payments are not refundable, and we do not provide refunds or credits for any partial subscription periods or Netflix content you have not used.
We can change our subscription plans and prices of our service from time to time.
To subscribe to the Netflix service, you must be at least 18 years old or you must reach the age of majority that is set in your area, in your area or in your country.
The Netflix service and any content that is accessed through a service is intended solely for your personal, non-commercial use and cannot be transferred to persons outside of your household unless otherwise provided by the terms of your subscription plan.
During your Netflix subscription, we provide you with a limited non-exclusive non-transferable right to access Netflix and Netflix content.
You can access Netflix content mainly in the country in which you created your account, and only in geographical regions where we offer our service and licensed such content.
Available content will depend on the geographical location and will change from time to time.
The Netflix service, including Netflix content, is constantly updated.
Therefore, we do not guarantee that some content will be available on Netflix at any time.
We may offer you to view events live or special releases (including repetitions of such content) or use new additional features.
Such content or new features may contain breaks for advertising, other types of advertising messages and advertising formats ("Advertising").
Our service may also contain limited promotional content, such as branded content or sponsorship messages, promotions for Netflix content or information about other Netflix products or services.
Netflix does not support or sponsor any of the advertised products or services, so you are responsible for any interaction with advertisers, including through participating in interactive ads.
We also constantly test various aspects of our service, including our websites, user interfaces and advertising features.
Some Netflix content is available for temporary download and offline viewing on certain supported devices ("Offline Content").
There are restrictions, including: the number of Offline Content on the account; the maximum number of devices on which you can store Offline content; the period of time during which you will need to start viewing Offline content; as well as the time during which offline content will remain available.
If you open such content in a country where you can not view this Offline content, it will not be played out as long as you are in this country.
You agree to use the Netflix service, including all related features and functionality, in accordance with applicable law, rules and regulations, and other restrictions imposed on the use of the service or its content.
The image of Netflix content can vary depending on the device and depend on various factors, such as your location, access bandwidth and/or the speed of your Internet connection.
The availability of content as HD, Ultra HD and HDR depends on your internet service and device capabilities.
Not all content is available with spatial sound or in all formats, such as HD, Ultra HD or HDR, and not all subscription plans allow you to watch content in all formats.
To view content as Full HD (determined as a resolution of 1080p or higher), the connection speed of at least 5.0 MB/s per stream is recommended.
To view content as Ultra HD (defined as 4K or higher resolution), a connection speed of at least 15.0 MB/s per stream is recommended.
Netflix software is designed by either for Netflix and can be used exclusively for authorized streaming and access to Netflix content through devices that support Netflix.
You agree that you can automatically receive updated versions of Netflix and related third-party software.