D U e p li d ve a r t i e n g l o to c a M t a io di n son 53719 All Search Amazon EN A He c l c lo o , u s n ig t n & in Lists R & e t O ur r n d s ers 0 All Holiday Gifts Medical Care Luxury Best Sellers Amazon Basics Today's Deals Books New Releases Registry Groceries Help & Customer Service ‹ All Help Topics Find more solutions Legal Policies Consumer Health Data Privacy Disclosure 3rd Party Licensing Notice Security and Privacy › Legal Policies › AMAZON INFLUENCER TERMS & CONDITIONS Conditions of Use FOR SPONSORED CONTENT Conditions of Use Last updated: May 30, 2025 Communications with Amazon Employees Welcome to Amazon.com.
items ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Manage Prime Cancel or view benefits When you use Amazon Services, or send e-mails, text messages, and other communications Payment Settings from your desktop or mobile device to us, you may be communicating with us electronically.
LICENSE AND ACCESS Subject to your compliance with these Conditions of Use and any Service Terms, and your payment of any applicable fees, Amazon or its content providers grant you a limited, non- exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable license to access and make personal and non- commercial use of the Amazon Services.
REVIEWS, COMMENTS, COMMUNICATIONS, AND OTHER CONTENT You may post reviews, comments, photos, videos, and other content; send e-cards and other communications; and submit suggestions, ideas, comments, questions, or other information, so long as the content is not illegal, obscene, threatening, defamatory, invasive of privacy, infringing of intellectual property rights (including publicity rights), or otherwise injurious to third parties or objectionable, and does not consist of or contain software viruses, political campaigning, commercial solicitation, chain letters, mass mailings, or any form of "spam" or unsolicited commercial electronic messages.
If you do post content or submit material, and unless we indicate otherwise, you grant Amazon a nonexclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable, and fully sublicensable right to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, perform, translate, create derivative works from, distribute, and display such content throughout the world in any media.
You represent and warrant that you own or otherwise control all of the rights to the content that you post; that the content is accurate; that use of the content you supply does not violate this policy and will not cause injury to any person or entity; and that you will indemnify Amazon for all claims resulting from content you supply.
In addition, we provide links to the sites of affiliated companies and certain other businesses.
These policies also govern your use of Amazon Services.
If you are a U.S. Government end user, we are licensing the Amazon Software to you as a "Commercial Product" as that term is defined in the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations (see 48 C.F.R.