Netflix Terms of Use | Netflix Help Center Netflix provides a personalized membership service that allows our members to access entertainment content (the “Netflix content”) over the internet on certain TVs, computers, and other internet-connected devices (“Netflix-compatible devices”).
As used in these Terms of Use, “Netflix service,” “our service,” or “service” refers to the personalized service provided by Netflix to discover and access Netflix content, including all features and functionalities, recommendations and reviews, our websites and user interfaces, as well as all content and software associated with our service.
To use the Netflix service, you must have access to the internet and a Netflix-compatible device, and provide one or more Payment Methods.
We can offer a wide variety of membership plans, including memberships offered through third parties along with the provision of their own products and services.
Certain membership plans may include various conditions and limitations, which are clarified in the subscription agreement or in other communications.
Eligibility requirements and other limitations and conditions will be informed when you subscribe to the Offer or in other communications made available to you.
If you subscribed to Netflix using your account with a third party as a Payment Method, you can find the billing information for your Netflix membership in your relevant third-party service account.
To use the Netflix service, you must provide one or more Payment Methods.
The Netflix service and all the content accessed on it is for personal, non-commercial use only, and should not be shared with other people who are not members of your household, unless your membership plan allows it.
During your Netflix membership, we grant you a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable right to access Netflix service and content.
You can access Netflix content mainly in the country where you established your account and only in the geographic locations where we offer our service and where you are licensed for that content.
The available content may vary by geographic location and change periodically.
Netflix’s service, including its content, is regularly updated.
Therefore, we do not guarantee that particular content will be available on the Netflix service at a certain time.
We may offer you the opportunity to view live events or special events (including repeating such content) or enjoy additional new features.
Such content and new features may include business pauses and other types of messages and advertising formats (“Announcements”).
Our service may also include limited commercial content, such as branded content or sponsorship messages, promotional videos of Netflix content, or information related to other Netflix goods or services.
Netflix does not endorse or sponsor any advertised product or service, and any interaction with advertisers, including through interaction with interactive ads, is by choice of its own and at its own risk.
In addition, we regularly test various aspects of our service, such as our websites, user interfaces and promotional features.
Some of the Netflix content is available for temporary download and offline viewing on certain supported devices (“Offline Titles”).
Some offline titles may not be playable in certain countries and may not be played in certain countries and that, if you connect in a country where you cannot stream that title offline, that title cannot be played while in that country.
You agree to use the Netflix service, including all features and functionality associated with it, in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, and regulations, or any other restrictions on the use of the Service or its content.
High Definition (HD) Content Availability, Ultra High Definition (Ultra HD) and High Dynamic Range (HDR) depend on your internet service and the device in use.
The quality of the spatial audio depends on the device in use.Not all content is available in spatial audio or in all formats, such as HD, Ultra HD, or HDR, nor all membership plans allow you to receive content in all formats.
However, we recommend a faster connection to improve video quality.
A connection speed of at least 5.0 Mb/s per stream is recommended to receive content with Full HD video quality (defined as a resolution of 1080p or higher).
A connection speed of at least 15.0 Mb/s per stream is recommended to receive Ultra HD video quality content (defined as a resolution of 4K or higher).
Ask your internet provider for information about possible data consumption charges for internet use.
You acknowledge that your use of the Service may require third-party software that is subject to third-party licenses.
You agree that you may automatically receive updated versions of the Netflix software and related third-party software.
Customer service.If you need to learn more about our service and its features, or if you need assistance with your account, please visit the Netflix Help Center, which you can access through the netflix.com website.
Netflix may change these Terms of Use when necessary.