Amazon Prime Video Terms of Use - Global Last Updated: May 15, 2025 Welcome to the terms of use for Amazon Prime Video.
These terms are between you and the entity providing the Amazon Prime Video service to you, which may be, depending on your location, Amazon.com Services LLC, Amazon Digital UK Limited or one of their affiliates ("Amazon", "we" or "us").
Visit www.primevideo.com/ww-av-legal- home to identify the Amazon affiliate that provides the Amazon Prime Video service to you and other applicable terms based on your location.
Your Amazon Prime Video service provider may change from time to time, with or without prior notice (unless required by applicable law).
Please read these terms, along with the Privacy Notice, Conditions of Use, and Amazon Prime Video Usage Rules applicable to you, and all other rules and policies related to the Amazon Prime Video service (including, but not limited to, any rules or usage provisions specified on any product detail page or on any help or other informational page for the Amazon Prime Video service) (collectively, this "Agreement").
Each time you visit, browse, or use the Amazon Prime Video service, you accept this Agreement on behalf of yourself and all members of your household and others who use the Service under your account.
THE SERVICE Amazon Prime Video (the "Service") is a personalized service that offers, recommends and helps you discover digital movies, television shows and other video content (collectively, "Digital Content") and other services as provided in this Agreement.
There are several ways to access the Service and Digital Content, including through Amazon Prime and your use of other Prime benefits and Amazon services are governed by separate terms made available in the apps, websites or devices you use to access those services.
We personalize content and features as part of the Services, including showing you recommendations on Digital Content, features and services that might be of interest to you.
We also endeavor to continuously improve the Amazon devices and services and your experience with them.
COMPATIBLE DEVICES In order to stream or download Digital Content, you will need to use a personal computer, portable media player, or other device that meets the system and compatibility requirements that we establish from time to time (a "Compatible Device").
Some Compatible Devices may be used only to stream Digital Content, some may be used only to download Digital Content, and some may be used to stream and download Digital Content.
The Amazon entity that provides you the Amazon Prime Video mobile app may be different than the Amazon entity that provides you the Service.
The Digital Content (including subtitled and dubbed audio versions of Digital Content) and how we offer Digital Content to you will vary over time and by location.
The Service may allow you to: (i) access Digital Content on a subscription basis for viewing during a limited period of time during a subscription period (for example, through Amazon Prime or other subscription or standalone video subscription offering) ("Subscription Digital Content"), (ii) rent Digital Content for on-demand viewing over a limited period of time ("Rental Digital Content"), (iii) purchase Digital Content for on-demand viewing over an indefinite period of time ("Purchased Digital Content"), (iv) purchase Digital Content for pay-per-view viewing over a limited period of time ("PPV Digital Content"), and/or (v) access Digital Content on a free, ad- supported or promotional basis for viewing over a limited period of time ("Free Digital Content").
Digital Content may be available as Subscription Digital Content, Rental Digital Content, Purchased Digital Content, PPV Digital Content, Free Digital Content, or any combination of those, and in each case is subject to the limited license grant below.
Your use of Digital Content is subject to the Amazon Prime Video Usage Rules (the "Usage Rules").
The Usage Rules provide important information, including the time period during which you are authorized to view different types of Digital Content (the "Viewing Period") and limitations on the number and type of Compatible Devices on which each type of Digital Content may be downloaded, streamed, and viewed.
Offers and pricing for subscriptions (also referred to at times as memberships), the subscription services, the extent of available Subscription Digital Content, and the specific titles available through subscription services, may change over time and by location without notice (except as may be required by applicable law).
Unless otherwise indicated, any price changes are effective as of the beginning of the next subscription period.
The pricing for subscriptions or memberships may include VAT and/or other taxes.
We make no guarantee as to the availability of specific Subscription Digital Content or the minimum amount of Subscription Digital Content available in any subscription.
Additional terms applicable to a subscription (such as the applicable cancellation and refund policy) will be indicated on the informational pages for that subscription on the primary Service website for your location, noted here (your "Video Marketplace").
Some of the subscription services that we offer are from third parties.
Third parties that provide subscription services (for example, through Prime Video add-on subscriptions) may change or discontinue the features of their services or the content in their services.
We may increase and we will decrease subscription fees or the membership fee (each a “change” and collectively “changes to the subscription fee” or “changes to the membership fee”) in order to pass on cost increases and/or cost savings arising to us that affect the costs of the Service of which you are a member.
Subscription or membership fees will only be changed to the extent that our own costs decrease or increase in total and any change to the subscription or membership fees will be based on the financial impact of the total cost decrease or increase on our provision of the Service to you.
If we make a change to the subscription fees or to the membership fee, we will inform you in text form (for example by e-mail) about the change, the reason(s) for the change, and the effective date of the change within a reasonable period of at least 30 days before the change takes effect.
You may reject the change or cancel your subscription or membership.
Any changes to subscriptions or to the membership previously made in accordance with these terms remain unaffected.
If you signed-up for your video-only subscription or membership directly through us, you may cancel any time by visiting Your Account and adjusting your membership settings, by contacting Amazon customer service, or by using any cancellation form that we make available to you on your Video Marketplace (noted here) or, if you transact for the applicable Amazon subscription or membership service through a third party, through your account with such third party.
If you cancel at any other time, we will refund your full membership fee only if Digital Content available as part of your video-only membership has not been accessed through your account since your latest membership charge.
If you are accessing the Service as part of a Prime membership, the cancellation and refund terms that apply to you are set forth in the Prime Terms of Use of your Video Marketplace (noted here).
Except as described in this paragraph, all transactions for Purchased Digital Content, Rental Digital Content and PPV Digital Content are final, and we do not accept returns of such Digital Content.
If you have purchased Digital Content as part of an Amazon subscription or membership that you transact for through a third party, the refund terms that apply will be set forth by such third party.
If you sign up for your video-only subscription or membership through us and are billed by us, then the billing terms described below will apply to your subscription or membership.
If you purchase a subscription or start a free trial for a subscription, your subscription will automatically continue, and you authorize us (without further notice, unless required by applicable law) to collect the then-applicable periodic subscription fee including any taxes, using any payment method we have on file for you.
UNLESS YOU NOTIFY US BEFORE A CHARGE THAT YOU WANT TO CANCEL OR DO NOT WANT TO AUTO RENEW, YOU UNDERSTAND THAT YOUR SUBSCRIPTION WILL AUTOMATICALLY CONTINUE AND YOU AUTHORIZE US (WITHOUT NOTICE TO YOU, UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW) TO COLLECT THE THEN-APPLICABLE PERIODIC SUBSCRIPTION FEE INCLUDING ANY TAXES, USING ANY PAYMENT METHOD WE HAVE ON FILE FOR YOU.
If you signed up for your video-only subscription or membership through a third party and are not billed directly by us, then the billing terms provided by the third party will apply to your subscription or membership.
We sometimes offer eligible customers various trial or other promotional memberships, which are subject to this Agreement except as otherwise stated in the promotional offers.
Subject to payment of any charges to rent, purchase, or access Digital Content, and your compliance with all terms of this Agreement, Amazon grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, limited license, during the applicable Viewing Period, to access and view the Digital Content in accordance with the Usage Rules, for personal, non-commercial, private use.
We may automatically remove Digital Content from your Compatible Device after the end of its Viewing Period.
Purchased Digital Content will generally continue to be available to you for download or streaming from the Service, as applicable, but may become unavailable due to potential content provider licensing restrictions or for other reasons, and Amazon will not be liable to you if Purchased Digital Content becomes unavailable for further download or streaming.
The playback resolution and quality of the Digital Content you receive will depend on a number of factors, including the type of Compatible Device on which you are accessing the Digital Content and your bandwidth, which may increase or decrease over the course of your viewing.
If we detect that Digital Content we are streaming to you may be interrupted or may otherwise not play properly due to bandwidth constraints or other factors, we may decrease the resolution and file size of the streamed Digital Content in an effort to provide an uninterrupted viewing experience.
While we strive to provide you a high quality viewing experience, we make no guarantee as to the resolution or quality of the Digital Content you will receive when streaming, even if you have paid extra for access to high definition, ultra-high definition, or high-dynamic-range content.
You may not (i) transfer, copy or display the Digital Content, except as permitted in this Agreement; (ii) sell, rent, lease, distribute, or broadcast any right to the Digital Content; (iii) remove any proprietary notices or labels on the Digital Content; (iv) attempt to disable, bypass, modify, defeat, or otherwise circumvent any digital rights management or other content protection system used as part of the Service; or (v) use the Service or Digital Content for any commercial or illegal purpose.
Terms contained in the Conditions of Use of your Video Marketplace (noted here) apply to your use of Software.
Information Provided to Amazon and Video Content Providers.
The Service and Software may provide Amazon with information relating to your use and the performance of the Service and Software, as well as information regarding the devices on which you download and use the Service and Software.
For example, the Software may provide Amazon with information related to the Digital Content that you download and stream and your use of that Digital Content (such as whether and when you viewed the Digital Content, which may, among other things, help us measure the Viewing Period for Rental Digital Content).
Any information we receive is subject to the Amazon Privacy Notice of your Video Marketplace (noted here).
We may provide certain information regarding your subscription status and use of Digital Content, including viewing history, to video content providers, such as third parties offering subscription services through Prime Video add-on subscriptions.
We will provide this information in a manner that is not identifiable to you (unless you authorize sharing identifiable information with a specific video content provider).
We may terminate your access to the Service, including any subscription available as part of the Service, at our discretion without notice (except as may be required by applicable law).
If we do so, we will give you a pro-rated refund of your subscription fee (if any); however, if you violate any of the terms of this Agreement, your rights under this Agreement will automatically terminate without notice, and Amazon may, in its discretion, immediately revoke your access to the Service and to Digital Content without refund of any fees.
Nevertheless, you agree to use the Service at your sole risk, and Amazon has no liability to you for any content.
These communications will be in accordance with the Amazon Privacy Notice of your Video Marketplace (noted here).
To stop receiving marketing communications from Amazon Prime Video, update your marketing communication preferences from Your Account.
Amazon may modify the Service (including any subscription), any Digital Content and/or Software from time to time (i) to improve existing, or add new, functionality and/or features, (ii) to improve or maintain the user experience, (iii) for operational or technical reasons, (iv) to support maintaining quality and quantity of content included in the Service, or (v) for legal or security reasons.
Amazon reserves the right to make changes to this Agreement for legal or regulatory reasons; for security reasons; to enhance existing features or add additional features to the Service; to reflect advancements in technology; to make reasonable technical adjustments to the Service; and to ensure the ongoing operability of the Service at any time by posting the revised terms in connection with the Service or on your Video Marketplace (noted here).
However, any increase in subscription fee will not apply until your subscription is renewed.
The Service, Software and the Digital Content embody intellectual property that is protected by law.
Copyright owners of Digital Content are intended third-party beneficiaries under the Agreement.
Any dispute or claim arising from or relating to this Agreement or the Service is subject to the governing law, disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability, dispute resolution and class action waiver (if applicable), and all other terms in the Amazon Conditions of Use of your Video Marketplace (noted here).
Without limiting the disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability in the Amazon Conditions of Use of your Video Marketplace (noted here): (i) in no event shall our or our software licensors' total liability to you for all damages arising out of or related to your use or inability to use the Software exceed the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00); and (ii) in no event shall our or our Digital Content providers' total liability to you for all damages arising from your use of the Service, the Digital Content, or information, materials or products included on or otherwise made available to you through the Service, exceed the amount you paid to us over the past 12 months to purchase, rent, or view the Digital Content related to your claim for damages.
We have a legal duty to supply the Service and Digital Content in conformity with this Agreement.