Netflix Terms of Use | Netflix Help Center Netflix provides a personalized subscription service that allows our members to access entertainment content ("Netflix content") over the Internet on certain Internet-connected TV's, computers and other devices ("Netflix ready devices").
The Netflix service is provided to you by Netflix, Inc. You have accepted these Terms of Use, which govern your use of our service.
As used in these Terms of Use, "Netflix service", "our service" or "the service" means the personalized service provided by Netflix for discovering and accessing Netflix content, including all features and functionalities, recommendations and reviews, our websites, and user interfaces, as well as all content and software associated with our service.
To use the Netflix service you must have Internet access and a Netflix ready device and provide us with one or more Payment Methods.
We may offer a number of subscription plans, including subscription plans that contain commercial breaks and other types of commercial messages and advertising formats (“Advertisements”).
All subscription plans may contain limited commercial content, such as branded content or sponsorship messaging, promos for Netflix content or information about other Netflix goods or services.
In addition, we may give our users the opportunity to watch live or special events (including replays of such content) or to enjoy new additional features.
Such content and new features may contain Advertisements independent of your subscription plan.
Some subscriptions are offered by third parties in conjunction with the provision of their own products and services.
In addition, some subscription plans may have differing conditions and limitations, which will be disclosed at your sign-up or in other communications made available to you.
To use the Netflix service you must provide one or more Payment Methods.
We may change our subscription plans and the price of our service from time to time.
The Netflix service and any content accessed through our service are for your personal and non- commercial use only and may not be shared with individuals beyond your household unless otherwise allowed by your subscription plan.
During your Netflix membership, we grant you a limited, non- exclusive, non-transferable right to access the Netflix service and Netflix content through the service.
You may access Netflix content primarily within the country in which you have established your account and only in geographic locations where we offer your subscription plan and have licensed such content.
The content that may be available will vary by geographic location and will change from time to time.
Not all Netflix content may be available in the ad supported subscription plan.
The number of devices on which you may simultaneously watch depends on your chosen subscription plan and is specified on the "Account" page.
The Netflix service, including the Netflix content, is regularly updated.
We therefore do not guarantee that particular content will be available on the Netflix service at any given time.
In addition, we continually test various aspects of our service, including but not limited to our websites, user interfaces and promotional features.
Depending on your subscription plan, some Netflix content may be available for temporary download and offline viewing on certain supported devices ("Offline Titles").
Some Offline Titles may not be playable in certain countries and if you go online in a country where you would not be able to stream that Offline Title, the Offline Title will not be playable while you are in that country.
You agree to use the Netflix service, including all features and functionalities associated therewith, in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, or other restrictions on use of the service or content therein.
The quality of the display of the Netflix content may vary from device to device, and may be affected by a variety of factors, such as your location, the bandwidth available through and/or speed of your Internet connection.
HD, Ultra HD and HDR availability is subject to your Internet service and device capabilities.
Not all content is available in spatial audio or in all formats, such as HD, Ultra HD or HDR and not all plans allow you to receive content in all formats.
A connection speed of at least 5.0 Mbps per stream is recommended to receive Full HD video quality (defined as a resolution of 1080p or higher).
A connection speed of at least 15.0 Mbps per stream is recommended to receive Ultra HD video quality (defined as a resolution of 4K or higher).
By using our service, you agree to receive, without further notice or prompting, updated versions of the Netflix and related third-party software.
By using our service, you agree to look solely to the entity that manufactured and/or sold you the Netflix ready device for any issues related to the device and its compatibility with the Netflix service.
We do not take responsibility or otherwise warrant the performance of Netflix ready devices, including the continued compatibility with our service.
By allowing others to access the account (which includes access to information on viewing activity for the account), you agree that such individuals are acting on your behalf and that you are bound by any changes that they may make to the account, including but not limited to changes to the subscription plan.
THE NETFLIX SERVICE AND ALL CONTENT AND SOFTWARE ASSOCIATED THEREWITH, OR ANY OTHER FEATURES OR FUNCTIONALITIES ASSOCIATED WITH THE NETFLIX SERVICE, ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE" WITH ALL FAULTS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.
YOU MAY ENCOUNTER THIRD PARTY ADVERTISEMENTS OR OTHER COMMERCIAL CONTENT ON THE NETFLIX SERVICE.
ANY INTERACTIONS WITH ADVERTISERS, INCLUDING THROUGH ENGAGEMENT WITH INTERACTIVE ADVERTISEMENTS, ARE AT YOUR OWN OPTION AND RISK AND YOU AGREE THAT NETFLIX IS NOT LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES THAT YOU MAY INCUR AS A RESULT OF SUCH INTERACTIONS.
This arbitration provision shall survive termination of this Agreement and the termination of your Netflix membership.
Netflix is free to use any comments, information, ideas, concepts, reviews, or techniques or any other material contained in any communication you may send to us ("Feedback"), including responses to questionnaires or through postings to the Netflix service, including our websites and user interfaces, worldwide and in perpetuity without further compensation, acknowledgement or payment to you for any purpose whatsoever including, but not limited to, developing, manufacturing and marketing products and creating, modifying or improving the Netflix service.
To find more information about our service and its features, or if you need assistance with your account, please visit the Netflix Help Center, which is accessible through the netflix.com website.
Netflix may, from time to time, change these Terms of Use.
We may assign our agreement with you to any affiliated company or to any entity that succeeds to all or substantially all of our business or assets related to the applicable Netflix service.
The Netflix service and/or some of the Netflix content may not be available for streaming or downloading at any time as a result of events beyond our reasonable control, including, but not limited to: (i) power or server outages; (ii) acts or failures of any kind by third parties such as network providers (iii) war, riots, strikes, or social unrest; and/or (iv) any other events or factors beyond our reasonable control.