ExpressVPN Terms of Service Last updated: September 9, 2025 FOR UNITED STATES RESIDENTS: IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS.
These Terms of Service (the “Terms”), along with the Privacy Policy (the “Privacy Policy”), govern the use of and access to the different services offered by Express Technologies Ltd. (“ExpressVPN,” “us,” “we,” or “our”), our website (the “Site”), applications (the “Apps,” including both the mobile and web versions), as well as all content (the “Content”) and software Live Chat (the “Software”) associated with our services (collectively referred to as the “Services”).
By agreeing to these Terms, you are also agreeing to the Privacy Policy.
These Terms and the Privacy Policy (together, the “Agreement”) constitute a legally binding agreement between you and ExpressVPN, so please read them carefully.
Acceptance By using and/or accessing the Services, you become a “Subscriber.” As such, you (“you” or “Subscriber”) are agreeing on behalf of yourself or those you represent to comply with and to be legally bound by these Terms and the Privacy Policy in their entirety, including to be responsible for any charges arising from your use of the Services.
Some sections of these Terms or the Privacy Policy may not apply to your specific use of the Services.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Agreement governs your access to and use of the Services through any means or channels, including any access or use in connection with routers or other products offered by ExpressVPN.
Modification ExpressVPN may update these Terms from time to time without notice.
Privacy Policy ExpressVPN is committed to your privacy and does not collect or log browsing history, traffic destination, data content, DNS queries, or user-linked IP addresses from Subscribers connected to our Services.
Please review each Privacy Policy in its entirety (if applicable to you) to get a clear understanding of how we handle your information, your rights, our rights, as well as our commitment to data protection.
Subscriptions and Cancellation Policy Our Services are available to you upon registering an account (the “Account”) on the Site or the Apps.
A full list of subscription plans and pricing is available on the Site.
ExpressVPN reserves the right to amend subscription fees or institute new fees at any time upon reasonable advance notice.
To find out more about these third parties and how they process your data, please refer to our Privacy Policy.
If you would like to discontinue automatic renewal, visit My Account, select My Subscription, and then follow the "Cancel Subscription" prompts; contact us by live chat at www.expressvpn.com/support; or email us at: By default, auto-renewal is turned on when you use a payment method that supports auto- renewal (such as a credit card or PayPal), and turned off when you use a payment method that does not support auto-renewal (such as Bitcoin).
Each paid subscription grants you one (1) license to use our VPN Service on up to eight (8) different devices at any given time.
If you want to use the Services on more than eight (8) devices at a time, then you can either (i) use ExpressVPN on your router, (ii) purchase additional subscription plans, or (iii) purchase additional licenses through the “volume licensing” option.
You understand that it is your responsibility to keep your Account information confidential and secure.
ExpressVPN Keys and Dedicated IP ExpressVPN Keys By registering your Account and subscribing to the Services, you are automatically granted access to our proprietary in-built password manager (“ExpressVPN Keys”).
You can use ExpressVPN Keys during any free trial period (if available to you), and regardless of the subscription plan you choose, if any.
Your access to ExpressVPN Keys is password-protected.
You can continue to use ExpressVPN Keys even if you decide to stop using our VPN Service.
Your Account will remain active, and the information added to ExpressVPN Keys will remain accessible to you even though you have ended your subscription Services.
Inactivity or other rare faults: To ensure continuous access to your Dedicated IP, ExpressVPN may have to assign you a new Dedicated IP address (i) if all of the ExpressVPN apps you unlocked your Dedicated IP on are inactive for more than one (1) month, if your subscription is one month long more than two (2) months, if your subscription is more than one month long or (ii) due to rare faults with our IP providers that cause the Dedicated IP address to malfunction.
The Money-Back Guarantee applies to new Subscribers only, and ExpressVPN reserves the right to deny a refund to a Subscriber who has previously received a refund per the policy.
Acceptable Use Policy Our Services may be accessed from all around the world, so it is your responsibility to assess whether your use of the Services is in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Whenever you use the Services, you must comply with these Terms and applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
ExpressVPN aims to provide the best service possible to all of our Subscribers.
In order to protect the Services from being misused or used to harm someone, ExpressVPN reserves the right to take appropriate measures when our Services are being used contrary to these Terms and applicable laws.
You agree that ExpressVPN may restrict access to any part of the Services, terminate your Account, or take any other legal measure provided by law, without providing a refund for Services already paid, if we believe at our absolute discretion that you have misused the Services.
Send, post, or transmit over the Services any content that is illegal, hateful, threatening, insulting, deceptive, or defamatory; infringes ExpressVPN or third parties’ intellectual property rights; invades privacy; or incites violence or any unlawful behavior.
Upload, download, post, reproduce, or distribute any content protected by copyright or any other proprietary right without first having obtained permission from the owner / licensor of the proprietary content.
Upload, download, post, reproduce, or distribute any content that includes sexual or explicit depictions of minors, or content that is similarly restricted / prohibited in your country.
Engage in any conduct that restricts or inhibits any other Subscriber from using or enjoying the Services.
Attempt to compile, utilize, or distribute a list of IP addresses operated by ExpressVPN in conjunction with the Services.
Use the Services for anything other than lawful purposes.
License Subject to your compliance with these Terms, ExpressVPN grants to you a worldwide, non- exclusive, non-sublicensable, fully revocable, and limited license to download and use the Services.
Usage of any material that is subject to ExpressVPN’s intellectual property rights is prohibited unless you have been provided with explicit written consent by ExpressVPN.
Nothing contained within or related to the Services or in these Terms shall be construed as granting, by implication or otherwise, any license or right to any of ExpressVPN’s intellectual property rights.
ExpressVPN makes no representation and disclaims all liability, to the fullest extent permitted under the applicable laws, with respect to the information, content, opinions, or materials posted on said channels by Subscribers or non-subscribers.
Third-Party Websites ExpressVPN may provide you with content belonging to or operated by third parties or links leading to third-party websites.
ExpressVPN is not responsible for the availability of the content provided by third parties as they are not under the control or supervision of ExpressVPN, and they may have different terms of use and policies.
Your access through our Services to any website, service, or content provided by third parties does not indicate any relationship between ExpressVPN and such third parties.
Partner Services ExpressVPN may from time to time provide access to or promotional offers for partner services, applications, or websites (“Partner Services”) as an added benefit to the Services (e.g., Identity Defender products or eSIM data plans through holiday.com).
Unless otherwise provided in these Partner Services’ Privacy Policies, ExpressVPN will not share your personal information with any provider of Partner Services.
You acknowledge that you access the Site and/or the Services at your sole risk and discretion.
VPN service coverage, speeds, server locations, and quality may vary.
ExpressVPN will attempt to make the Services available at all times.
However, the Services may be subject to unavailability for a variety of factors beyond our control, including but not limited to emergencies; third-party-service failures; transmission, equipment, or network problems or limitations, interference, or signal strength; and may be interrupted, refused, limited, or curtailed.
We may impose usage or Service limits, suspend Services, terminate Accounts, or block certain kinds of usage at our sole discretion to protect ExpressVPN, Subscribers, or the Services.
We reserve the right to modify the Services, including by adding and removing features, as part of our ongoing commitment to update and improve the Services for all users.
ExpressVPN reserves the right to investigate matters we consider to be violations of these Terms.
We may, but are not obligated to, at our sole discretion and without notice, remove, block, filter, or restrict by any means any materials or information that we consider to be actual or potential violations of the restrictions set forth in these Terms, and any other activities that may subject ExpressVPN or our customers to liability.
ExpressVPN disclaims any and all liability for any failure on our part to prevent such materials or information from being transmitted over the Services and/or into your computing device.
Limitations of Liability To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, ExpressVPN shall not be liable and shall not have responsibility of any kind to any Subscriber or other individual for any loss or damage incurred in the event of: 1. any failure or interruption of the Services; 2. any act or omission of any third party involved in making the Services or the data contained therein available to you; 3. any other cause relating to your access or use, or inability to access or use, any portion of the Site or its Content; 4. your interactions on the Services or discussion forums provided by ExpressVPN; 5. your failure to comply with the Agreement; 6. the cost of procurement of substitute goods or services; or 7. unauthorized access to or alteration of your transmissions or data, whether or not the circumstances giving rise to such cause may have been within the control of ExpressVPN or of any third-party vendor providing software, services, or support for the Site or Services.
In no event will ExpressVPN, its partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, members, officers, or employees be liable for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, or incidental damages, or for any other loss or damages of any kind, even if they have been advised of the possibility thereof.
Indemnification You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless ExpressVPN, its officers, directors, employees, members, partners, agents, and suppliers, and their respective affiliates, officers, directors, employees, members, shareholders, partners, and agents, from any and all claims and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, arising out of your use of the Services, including but not limited to your violation of the Agreement.
Please review these provisions carefully, as they include an agreement to arbitrate any and all claims or disputes between you and ExpressVPN (the “Agreement to Arbitrate”), which shall be binding on you absent your valid election to opt-out.
The disputes and claims to which this Agreement to Arbitrate between you and ExpressVPN applies includes, but is not limited to, any and all disputes or claims in connection with or relating in any way to this or one or more previous versions of the Terms or your use of or access to our Services, any and all claims that arose before you accepted any version of these Terms containing an arbitration provision, and the arbitrability of any and all disputes and claims (consistent with the “Delegation of Arbitrability” term below).
However, nothing in this section shall prevent you or ExpressVPN from participating in a class-wide settlement of claims.