Netflix Terms of Use - Netflix Help Center Netflix provides a personalized subscription service that allows our members to access entertainment content ("Netflix content") over the Internet on specific televisions, computers and other devices ("Netflix compliant devices").
The Netflix service is provided to you by Netflix International B.V.
The terms "Netflix service," "our service" or "service" under these Terms of Use refers to all features and functions, advices and reviews, all the features and functions, recommendations and reviews, our websites, user interfaces and all content and software that are related to our service, for the availability and access of Netflix content.
To use the Netflix service, you must have Internet access and a Netflix-compatible device and provide us with one or more Payment Methods.
We may offer several different subscription plans, including third parties, including subscriptions offered together with their own products or services.
Netflix is not responsible for products or services offered by such third parties.
Some subscription plans may have different terms and limitations to be announced when you sign up or other communications offered to you.
To use the Netflix service, you must provide one or more Payment Methods.
Payments are not refunded to the extent permitted by applicable law and we do not have a refund or credit identification for incomplete membership periods or unused Netflix content.
We may change our subscription plan and the cost of our service from time to time.
Any content accessed through the Netflix service and the service is intended for your personal use and non-commercial use; it cannot be shared with people outside your household unless otherwise permitted in your subscription plan.
During your Netflix membership, we provide you with a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable right that allows you to access Netflix service and Netflix content.
You can access Netflix content primarily in the country where you have your account and only in the geographical regions where we offer our service and which we license that content in question.
The number of devices you can use to track content at the same time depends on your selected subscription plan and is indicated on the "Account" page.
The Netflix service is constantly updated, including Netflix content.
That's why we can't guarantee that a specific content will be available within the Netflix service at a certain time.
We can give you the opportunity to watch live or custom events (including repetitions of such content) or to benefit from new additional features.
Such content and new features, ad breaks and other advertising messages and may include advertising formats ("Advertisements").
Our service may also include limited commercial content, such as branded content and sponsor messages, promotions of Netflix content, or information about other Netflix products or servicesUh, .
Any interaction with advertisers, including interaction with interactive ads, which does not support or support any product or service that is advertised for them, and your risk is at your own risk.
We also process many elements of our service, including our websites, user interfaces and promotional content, to continuous tests.
Some Netflix content can be temporarily downloaded and tracked offline on specific supported devices ("Occuptionary Content").
Restrictions include the number of Offline Content per account, the maximum number of devices that can host Offline Content, the time when Offline Content must be monitored, and the time for offline Content to remain traceable.
You agree to use the Netflix service in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, or other restrictions on the use of the relevant service or content, along with all the features and functionality associated with the service.
HD, Ultra HD and HDR options depend on the possibilities your Internet service and device offers.
Not all content is offered with a locational audio feature or in all formats such as HD, Ultra HD or HDR, and all subscription plans allow you to track content in all formats.
The minimum connection rate required for HD video quality (720p or above resolution) is 3.0 Mbps per broadcast; however, we recommend using a higher connection rate to achieve better video quality.
It is advisable to have at least 5.0 Mbps connection rate per broadcast to achieve full HD video quality (1080p or above resolution).
It is advisable to have at least 15,0 Mbps connection rate per broadcast to achieve Ultra HD video quality (defined as resolution (defined as resolution of 4K or above).
You agree that the use of a third-party software subject to third-party licenses may be necessary to use the Service.
You agree that you can automatically obtain updated versions of Netflix software and related third-party software.
IN THEIR SCOPE OF THE RELATED LAW, NETFLIX AND YOU WILL NOT REQUEST ANYONE AS ANYONE AND ANY BALL DAVANI DAVACY OR YOU WILL NOT REQUEST A MEMBER OF COMMUNITY.
In addition, if permitted under the applicable law, the court may not merge the request of more than one person with your request and otherwise, if not agreed by Netflix and your party, and otherwise it may not preside over any representative or collective case.
If you want to know more about our service and features or if you need help with your account, please visit the Netflix Help Center, which is accessible via the netflix.com website.
Netflix may change these Terms of Use from time to time.