Prime members will have more opportunities to save throughout the year including at our 11th Prime Day event in July.
People are buying a lot of their everyday essentials at Amazon.
Amazon ad provides brands with tools to reach targeted audiences in our own entertainment properties such as Prime Video, Twitch and IMDB in live sports such as NFL NBA and NASCAR, audio content such as Amazon Music and Wondery and of course in our store as well as many other external sites such as Pinterest and Buzzfeed.
All of our audience and measurement capabilities work for the ads we deliver across premium third-party publishers through Amazon DSP and our secure cleanrooms provide advertisers the ability to analyze data, produce core marketing metrics and understand how their marketing performs across various channels.
You can see that in how we're using AI in our fulfillment network, robotics, shopping, prime video and advertising experiences.
As I've referenced a couple times in Q1, we introduced Alexa Plus, our next generation Alexa personal assistant who's meaningfully smarter and more capable than her prior self, can both answer virtually any question and take actions and is free with prime or available to non-prime customers for 1999 a month.
We saw broad-based strengths across our key business inputs, including record delivery speeds for prime members, enabled by improved inventory placement.
We're seeing strong adoption across our full funnel advertising offering as brands appreciate our ability to connect them with customers.
And what happens a lot of times too is that they get excited and enthusiastic about the cost advantages and the speed of innovation advantages they get moving to the cloud.
Can you talk about that more and just, you know, with Alexa, the products have been around for a long time.
It provides lower cost and only for us, but also for our customers, the better price performance for them.
And it's a big focus as well as expanding services and features for customers.
On the retail question, I would say that the areas that maybe were most focused on to make sure we are not just a great prime day, but prime day is just one event as you know.