PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world.
We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats.
We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices.
We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com.
We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud- based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models.
We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators (“SIs”), independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).
In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions.
The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OFFERINGS For almost 40 years, Adobe’s innovations have transformed how individuals, teams, businesses and governments engage and interact across all types of media.
While we continue to offer a broad portfolio of products, services and solutions, we focus our investments in two areas of strategic growth: Digital Media.
We provide products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content.
Our Digital Media segment is centered around Adobe Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud, which include Creative Cloud Express, Photoshop, Illustrator, Lightroom, Premiere Pro, Acrobat, 3 Table of Contents Adobe Sign and many more products, offering a variety of tools for creative professionals, communicators and other consumers.
This is the core of what we have delivered to users for decades, and we have continually evolved and expanded our business model to provide our customers with a range of flexible solutions that allow them to reach their full creative potential anytime, anywhere, on any device and on projects of all types.
We provide an integrated platform and set of applications and services through Adobe Experience Cloud that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce.
Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite.
With the creative power of our Digital Media business and the data-based tools of our Digital Experience business, we are able to offer a comprehensive suite of offerings to our customers.
Through these tools and services, we help our customers more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across channels and devices with an end-to- end workflow and feedback loop.
In addition, our ability to deliver innovation and productivity improvements across customer workflows involving the creation, management, delivery, measurement and optimization of engaging content favorably positions Adobe as our customers continue to invest in delivering digital experiences.
SEGMENTS Our business is organized into three reportable segments: • Digital Media; • Digital Experience; and • Publishing and Advertising.
These segments provide Adobe’s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses.
Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities further described below, and our legacy products and solutions are contained within the third segment, Publishing and Advertising.
Digital Media Opportunity In today’s digital world, design and creativity have never been more relevant, providing a significant market opportunity for Adobe in digital media.
In a creator economy that is continually expanding, creators are looking for tools to help them easily make and share unique and beautiful content without complexity.
We believe Adobe is in a strong position to capitalize on these trends with innovation that will accelerate the creative process to empower individuals to create wherever inspiration strikes and enable more effective collaboration between creators and stakeholders.
The flagship of our Digital Media business is Adobe Creative Cloud, a subscription service that allows members to use our creative products integrated with cloud-delivered services across desktop, web and mobile devices.
We believe in creativity for all, and Creative Cloud addresses the needs of all content creators, from creative professionals, such as artists, designers, developers, students and administrators, to knowledge workers, marketers, educators, enthusiasts and communicators and to consumers.
Our customers rely on our products for content creation, photo editing, design, video and animation production, 4 Table of Contents mobile app and gaming development and more.
In this era of connected creativity, we envision Creative Cloud functioning as a creative system, keeping our users connected to everything and everyone they need to make a project successful.
We believe we have significant opportunities to grow by expanding content-first, task-based creativity, advancing every creative category across desktop, web and mobile, expanding 3D and immersive content creation, enabling seamless collaboration across all stakeholders and inspiring and empowering the creative community through sharing and monetization.
Adobe’s Digital Media segment also includes our Adobe Document Cloud business, a unified, cloud-based document services platform, which integrates Adobe’s pioneering PDF technology with our Acrobat and Adobe Sign applications to deliver fully digital document workflows.
With this digital transformation, we have the opportunity to continue to accelerate document productivity with Adobe Document Cloud, modernizing how people view, share and engage with documents.
In our Adobe Document Cloud business, Adobe Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption and a leadership position in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing.
Strategy Our goal for our Digital Media business is to be the leading platform for creativity and digital document solutions, where we offer a range of products and services that allow individuals, teams, small and medium businesses, enterprises and government institutions, including both professionals and enthusiasts, to design and deliver content seamlessly.
With content creation, consumption and monetization happening across all surfaces and media types, we aim to deliver new ways to unleash creativity and accelerate document productivity, and we believe this is an area of significant opportunity for growth through expansion of our customer base.
We aim to achieve this by using data-driven customer engagement, driving product-led growth through innovation to make our creative applications more accessible and easier to learn and meeting customer needs holistically to increase the value of our products.
We continue to redefine the creative process with Creative Cloud, so that our customers can connect with everything and everyone they need to create, collaborate and be inspired.
We are empowering content-first, task-based creativity with our launch of Creative Cloud Express, a web and mobile application with a content- and template-first experience to enable a broad spectrum of users, including novice content creators, communicators and creative professionals, to create, edit and customize content quickly and easily, in December 2021.
We have delivered our flagship applications, including Photoshop, Illustrator and Lightroom, on desktop and mobile devices to allow users the ability to work from anywhere on any device and to collaborate with stakeholders.
We are taking Creative Cloud to the web, beginning with a public beta version of Photoshop, which will allow Creative Cloud subscribers to make edits to and collaborate on their files directly in their browser.
We also offer a range of other creative tools and services, including hobbyist products, such as Photoshop Elements and Premiere Elements; libraries of creative assets, such as Adobe Stock and Adobe Fonts; mobile-first apps, such as Photoshop Camera; and Creative Cloud Libraries, a central place for users to store their assets.
Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under “Principal Products and Services.” On October 7, 2021, Adobe acquired Frame.io and began integrating its leading cloud-based video collaboration platform into Adobe Creative Cloud.
With the acquisition of Frame.io, we aim to make the creative process even more collaborative, productive and efficient by enhancing Adobe Creative Cloud with Frame.io’s cloud-native collaboration workflows, while continuing to enable third-party applications.
In our Creative Cloud business, we continue to employ a pricing strategy, as appropriate, to move our customers to better-value offerings as well as attract past customers and potential users to try out our products and ultimately subscribe.
As part of our strategy, we use a data-driven operating model and our Digital Experience solutions offered through Adobe 5 Table of Contents Experience Cloud to drive and optimize customer awareness, engagement and licensing of our creative products and services at every stop of the customer journey through our website and across other channels.
Adobe.com is the central destination where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions.
Our customers have the flexibility to subscribe to over twenty of our Creative Cloud products through a single subscription or, for many of our applications, through various collections of our individual subscriptions to point products.
To better serve our current users and potential users, we offer free and premium levels for certain applications, such as Creative Cloud Express, and targeted packages and suites, such as our Photography Plan and Substance 3D Collection.
We use our data-driven operating model to optimize conversion of our users of free apps and trials to paid subscribers.
Our collaboration tools and services help us to further expand our universe of business customers beyond creative professionals to other stakeholders who use our products for review and approval purposes, copywriting or leveraging templates for social media marketing.
We utilize channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for teams offering.
Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for enterprise offering.
Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with existing users, attract new customers and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably.
In our Adobe Document Cloud business, we expect to drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by continuing to deliver the best PDF experience on and across every platform, improve Acrobat web’s functionality and single-click ease of use, expand the number of task-based actions in Acrobat, integrate Adobe Sign into Acrobat across all surfaces, drive innovation with Adobe Sensei (machine-learning/AI) to make both new and legacy documents more intelligent and responsive, unlock business workflows through PDF and Adobe Sign APIs, and leverage diversified go-to-market motions to reach all segments.
As with our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize a data-driven operating model to market our Document Cloud solutions and optimize our subscription-based pricing for individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government institutions around the world.
We aim to increase our reach in our key markets through the utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs.
We also intend to increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, as well as on expanding into emerging markets.
We will continue to engage in strategic partnerships to help drive the enterprise business, including our partnerships with Microsoft, Workday, ServiceNow and Notarize.
As our Document Cloud customers increasingly expect business processes to be seamless across devices and the web, we are expanding our Document Cloud capabilities to meet this need.
We believe that by growing the awareness of electronic signatures in the broader contract delivery and signing market, utilizing Adobe Sensei to enhance customer experiences through machine learning and AI and continuing to add new capabilities to our Acrobat, Adobe Scan and Adobe Sign offerings, we can help our customers continue to migrate away from paper-based processes and adopt our solutions to modernize and digitize document experiences, growing our revenue with this business in the process.
Digital Experience Opportunity Digital transformation is a macro trend that affects every business, government and educational institution today—every business is a digital business.
Consumers today buy experiences, not just products, and they demand personalized digital experiences that are relevant, engaging, seamless and secure across an ever-expanding range of channels and devices.
Marketing and IT teams are looking for a return on investment to demonstrate the business impact of their transformation initiatives.
Adobe Experience Cloud is powering digital businesses by providing exceptional experiences to their customers via a comprehensive suite of solutions.
We continue to believe that addressing the challenges of customer experience management is 6 Table of Contents a large and growing opportunity and we are in position to help businesses and enterprises invest in solutions that aid their goals to transform how they engage with their customers and constituents digitally.
Strategy Our goal is to be the leading provider of cloud-based solutions for delivering digital experiences and enabling digital transformation.
The Adobe Experience Cloud applications and services are designed to manage customer journeys, enable personalized experiences at scale and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry.
The Adobe Experience Platform further strengthens our differentiation and competitive advantage offering a way to connect our comprehensive set of solutions.
Adobe Experience Cloud delivers solutions for our customers across the following strategic growth pillars: • Data insights and audiences.
Our solutions, including Adobe Analytics, Adobe Experience Platform, Customer Journey Analytics, Adobe Audience Manager and our Real-time Customer Data Platform, deliver robust customer profiles and AI-powered analytics across the customer journey to assist our customers in providing timely, relevant experiences across platforms.
Our solutions help customers manage, deliver and optimize content delivery, through Adobe Experience Manager and to enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses, with Adobe Commerce.
Our solutions help businesses manage, test, target, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across B2E use cases, including through Marketo Engage, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target and Journey Optimizer.
We offer Adobe Workfront, a work management platform directed toward marketers to orchestrate campaign workflows.
Adobe Experience Cloud offers domain-specific AI services powered by Adobe Sensei that work with Adobe Experience Platform to augment existing Experience Cloud product offerings.
These AI services help provide domain-specific intelligence in areas such as attribution and automated insights, customer journey management, lead management, sentiment analysis, one-click personalization, enhanced anomaly detection and more.
Adobe Experience Cloud also offers an open platform and ecosystem through the Adobe Experience Platform, AI services and developer services through Adobe I/O.
Adobe Experience Platform provides the underlying infrastructure to make customer experience management possible by standardizing data into an easily sharable format consumable by Adobe Sensei and provides an open and extensible cloud infrastructure for Adobe Experience Cloud that allows data to flow freely within the Adobe Experience Platform and between Adobe Experience Cloud solutions and third-party software.
To drive growth of Adobe Experience Cloud, we are focused on delivering the best customer experience management solutions for B2E, enterprise and mid-market through our applications, services and platform.
We also intend to focus on customer engagement, growth within existing customer accounts and product differentiation.
We are continuing to add new services, such as Adobe Developer App Builder and Adobe Experience Cloud for Healthcare, and add new functionality and features to our current offerings, such as a new B2B edition of Adobe Real-Time Customer Data Platform, Adobe Experience Manager Screens and new personalization features in Adobe Experience Cloud.
To give our customers increased flexibility, better functionality and expand our reach, we are also delivering new and improved integrations, such as increased synergy between our Experience Cloud products and Creative Cloud and Adobe Sign.
Within our established base of customers, we intend to pursue growth through continued expansion of mid-market and enterprise customer accounts by encouraging such customers to take advantage of our suite of end-to-end products.
We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Experience Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, SIs and ISVs that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers.
Strategic partnerships, such as the ones we have formed with Microsoft, IBM, Fluent Commerce and Dentsu, continue to increase our market reach.
We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market and believe these investments will result in continued growth in revenue in our Digital Experience segment in fiscal 2022 and beyond.
7 Table of Contents Publishing and Advertising Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings.
Adobe Advertising Cloud delivers an end-to-end, demand-side platform for managing advertising across digital formats and simplifies the delivery of video, display and search advertising across channels and screens.
We generate revenue in our legacy Publishing products and services by licensing our technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output devices, and we generally generate revenue in Advertising through usage-based offerings.
COMPETITION Overview Adobe participates in a highly competitive environment globally, where our competitors vary by industry segment and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller entities with a more narrowly focused product offering.
The markets for our products and services are characterized by new industry standards, evolving distribution models, technology innovation, frequent product introductions, short product life cycles, price cutting with resulting downward pressure on gross margins and price sensitivity on the part of consumers.
Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and better integrate our existing products, introduce new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, meet changing customer needs, provide best-in-class information security to build customer confidence and combat cyber-attacks, extend our core technology into new applications and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological changes.
A summary of the competitive environment for each of our business segments is included below: Digital Media Our Digital Media segment faces competition from large, established companies as well as a variety of point offerings, free products and downloadable apps.
We compete in a constantly evolving market and face significant direct or indirect competition from desktop software companies; device, hardware and camera manufacturers; operating system developers that integrate digital imaging and image management features with their operating systems; smartphone and tablet manufacturers that integrate imaging and video software; proprietary and open source web-authoring tools; mobile-first applications; social media platforms that provide imaging and video offerings, including editing capabilities; stock content marketplaces; and digital document creation, storage, collaboration and signing providers.
We believe competitive factors in our markets include brand leadership, product features and functionalities; integration with related tools and third-party applications; the intuitiveness and visual appeal of user interfaces; demonstrable cost-effective benefits to customers; pricing; the flexibility of services to match changing business demands; usability and accessibility on multiple devices, including mobile and desktop; and success in educating customers in how to utilize services effectively.
We believe our greatest advantage in this space is the performance and scope of our integrated solutions, which work together as part of Creative Cloud or Document Cloud.
We are a leader through our ability to offer a very broad and comprehensive array of products and services through our Adobe Creative Cloud.
With Creative Cloud, we believe we compete well with our features and functionality, ease of use, product reliability, value and performance characteristics.
With Document Cloud, we believe we compete well based on the global use of PDF, our features and functionalities, which are critical tools for millions of business communicators, and our brand leadership.
8 Table of Contents Digital Experience Our Digital Experience business unit competes in markets that are growing rapidly and characterized by intense competition.
Our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions face competition from large, established companies, including large enterprise software, internet and database management companies, in addition to point product solutions and focused competitors, and new competitors are constantly entering these markets.
Some of these competitors provide SaaS solutions to customers, generally through a web browser, while others provide software that is installed by customers directly on their servers.
In addition, we compete at times with our customers’ or potential customers’ internally-developed applications.
We believe competitive factors in our markets include the proven performance, security, scalability, flexibility and reliability of services; the strategic relationships and integration with third-party applications; the intuitiveness and visual appeal of user interfaces; demonstrable cost-effective benefits to customers; pricing; the flexibility of services to match changing business demands; enterprise-level customer service and training; brand leadership; the usability of services; real-time data and reporting; independence from portals and search engines; the ability to deploy the services globally; and success in educating customers in how to utilize services effectively.
Publishing and Advertising Our Publishing and Advertising product offerings faces competition from large-scale publishing systems and XML- based publishing companies, as well as lower-end desktop publishing products.
Our web conferencing product faces competition from a number of established products from other large software companies.
Competition involves a number of factors, including product features, ease-of-use, the level of customization and integration supported, the number of hardware platforms supported, service and price.
We believe we can successfully compete based upon the quality and features of our products, integrations with our Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Digital Experience products and our strong brand among users.
PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Digital Media Offerings Creative Cloud Adobe Creative Cloud is a cloud-based subscription app that enables creative professionals and enthusiasts alike to express themselves with apps and services for photography, design, video, web and more that connect across devices, platforms and geographies.
Members have access to a vibrant creative community, publishing services to deliver apps and websites, cloud storage to easily sync and access their work, files and assets across apps, platforms and devices using Creative Cloud Libraries, collaboration capabilities with team members and new products and exclusive updates as they are developed.
Creative Cloud members can build a Creative Profile that moves with them via Creative Cloud services from app to app and device to device, giving them immediate access to their personal files, photos, brushes, graphics, colors, fonts, text styles, desktop setting customizations and other important assets.
All of the applications listed below and many more are available through subscriptions to Creative Cloud.
Many of our applications are also available as a point product subscription.
In addition to individual subscriptions to Photoshop and Lightroom, we offer a Photography Plan, which is a more limited cloud-based offering than Creative Cloud, targeted at photographers and photo enthusiasts and includes Photoshop, Lightroom and Lightroom Classic.
Our customers use it to create, preflight and publish a broad range of content including newspapers and magazines for print, online and tablet app delivery.
Customers can also access Adobe’s digital publishing capabilities from within InDesign to create and publish engaging apps for a broad range of devices, including iOS, Android and Amazon-based devices.
Adobe Stock is built into our Creative Cloud apps, including Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign, enabling users to search, browse and add assets to their Creative Cloud Libraries and instantly access them across all connected devices.
Adobe Stock assets include free and paid collections and may be licensed directly within Adobe’s desktop apps, through stock.adobe.com or as a multi-asset subscription.
Creative Cloud Express Creative Cloud Express is our web and mobile app directed towards first-time creators, communicators and creative professionals that enables easy-to-use, efficient content creation, featuring guided tools, one-click solutions for quick projects, simple drag and drop functions, collaboration tools, thousands of templates and access to more than 20,000 fonts and the entire Adobe Stock photo collection.
Creative Cloud Express is available as a free or premium version.
Adobe Portfolio allows users to quickly and simply build a fully-customizable and hosted website that seamlessly syncs with Behance.
Adobe Document Cloud Adobe Document Cloud is a cloud-based subscription offering that enables complete, reliable and automated digital document and signature workflows across desktop, mobile, web and third-party enterprise applications to drive business productivity for individuals, teams, small businesses and enterprises.
With Document Cloud, users can create, review, approve, sign and track documents and store them in the cloud for easy access and sharing, across desktop and mobile devices.
Document Cloud includes Adobe Acrobat DC, Adobe Sign, Adobe Scan and other apps and API services that work standalone or integrate with users’ existing productivity apps, processes and systems.
Acrobat is also included in our Creative Cloud all apps subscription offering.
11 Table of Contents Digital Experience Offerings Adobe Experience Cloud is a comprehensive collection of best-in-class products and solutions to manage the customer experience, all integrated onto a cloud platform, along with service, support and an open ecosystem.
Experience Cloud is comprised of the following sets of solutions for our customers: Adobe Experience Platform; Data, Insights and Audiences; Content and Commerce; Customer Journeys; Marketing Workflow; and Digital Enrollment and Onboarding, which are each described below.
The following is a brief description of our solutions for Customer Data and Insights.
Our customers can use these analytics to continuously improve marketing activities and better direct their marketing spend.
Adobe Experience Platform standardizes data for intelligence and profile creation and provides an open and extensible cloud infrastructure, real-time updates, AI-driven insights and scalability, with a wide variety of supporting products and services.
Real-Time Customer Data Platform Adobe’s Real-time Customer Data Platform service, built on Adobe Experience Platform, delivers real-time personalization at scale to enable brands to bring together internal and external, known and unknown customer data to activate real-time customer and account profiles that allow for B2C and B2B marketers to deliver timely, relevant experiences across channels.
It does so by activating Adobe Experience Platform’s unified customer profiles across channels to leverage intelligent decision making throughout the customer journey and deliver hyper-personalized experiences across all known channels and devices.
The following is a brief description of our solutions for Content and Commerce.
Adobe Experience Manager Sites provides a content management system built on a scalable, cloud- native foundation to create and deploy personalized experiences across every channel.
Adobe Experience Manager Assets offers cloud-native digital asset management to create, manage, deliver and optimize personalized experiences at scale.
Adobe Experience Manager Forms provides a cloud-native and scalable solution for personalized end-to-end digital customer onboarding and enrollment, enabling users to create, manage, publish and approve forms and documents.
Adobe Commerce Adobe Commerce offers a highly customizable, end-to-end platform to manage, personalize and optimize the commerce experience for physical and digital goods across every touchpoint by bringing together digital commerce, order management and predictive intelligence to enable engaging shopping experiences across B2C, B2B and direct-to-consumer.
Based on an open-source ecosystem with thousands of third-party extensions, Adobe Commerce extends beyond the web shopping cart to shoppable experiences, with actionable data analysis and automated back-end workflows, native integrations with other Adobe products, such as Analytics, Target, Experience Manager and Creative Cloud and the capability to be scalable and extensible.
Customer Journeys Our Customer Journeys solutions enable our customers to manage and orchestrate individual cross-channel campaigns that encourage meaningful customer experiences, personalize content and deliver optimized experiences at scale that are meaningful to each of their customers and plan, orchestrate and measure engagement with their prospects and customers at every stage of the customer journey, across B2E use cases.
Capabilities include lead nurturing and management, predictive account profiling for creating account-based experiences, integrated sales application and integrations with third-party marketing apps and Adobe Experience Cloud.
Adobe Campaign enables marketers to orchestrate the entire customer journey and use rich customer data to create, coordinate and deliver dynamic, personalized experiences that are synchronized across channels, including email, mobile and offline, and determined by each consumer’s behaviors and preferences.
Adobe Campaign’s features also include AI-powered email management, multidimensional targeting, in-app messaging and dynamic, customizable reports to analyze success.
New features include integration with Adobe Real-Time Customer Data Platform, same page segment qualification and enhanced AI-powered capabilities.
We recently added plugins for Adobe Photoshop and Adobe XD, as well as integrations with Adobe Experience Manager Assets and Adobe Marketo Engage, to enhance our experience delivery to B2B brands and make Workfront features available to more of our users.
Other Products and Services We also offer a broad range of other enterprise and digital media products and services.
Information about other products not referenced here can be found on our corporate website, www.adobe.com.
We also market and distribute our products through sales channels, which include distributors, retailers, software developers, mobile app stores, SIs, ISVs and VARs, as well as through OEM and hardware bundle customers and our local field offices.
We sell the majority of our products through a software subscription model where our customers purchase access to a product for a specific period of time during which they always have rights to use the most recent version of that product.
We also license perpetual versions of certain products with maintenance and support, which includes rights to upgrades, when and if available, support, updates and enhancements.
With a focus on ensuring sustained customer success and realized value, this comprehensive portfolio of services is designed to help customers and partners maximize the return on their investments in our cloud solutions and licensed products.
Consulting Services We have a global professional services team dedicated to designing and implementing solutions for our largest customers.
Our customers continually seek to integrate across Adobe’s products and cloud solutions and engage our professional services teams for their expertise in leading customers’ digital strategies, multi-solution integrations and in running customer platforms.
Using our methodology, our professional services teams are able to accelerate customers’ time to value and maximize customers’ return on their investment in Adobe solutions.
14 Table of Contents Another key component of Adobe’s strategy is developing a large partner ecosystem to expand the reach and breadth of Adobe solutions in the global marketplace.
To assist partners in building their respective digital practices, Adobe Global Services provides a comprehensive set of deliverables through Adobe’s Solution Partner Program.
We believe that through these programmatic services and support, our joint customers benefit greatly from the combination of Adobe technology and the deep customer context that our global partners represent.
Customer Success Account Management Adobe Customer Solutions provides Customer Success Managers, who work with enterprise and commercial customers on an ongoing basis to understand their current and future business needs, promote faster solution adoption and align product capabilities to customers’ business objectives to maximize the return on their investment in Adobe’s offerings.
We engage customers to share innovative best practices, relevant industry and vertical knowledge and proven success strategies based on our extensive engagements with leading marketers and brands.
Technical Support Adobe provides enterprise maintenance and support services to customers of subscription products as part of the subscription entitlement and to perpetual license customers via annual fee-based maintenance and support programs.
These offerings provide customers with: • technical support on the products customers have purchased from Adobe; • “how to” help in using our products; and • product upgrades and enhancements during the term of the maintenance and support or subscription period, which is typically one to three years.
We provide product support through our support organization that includes several regional and global support centers, supplemented with outsourced vendors for specific services.
For enterprise customers with greater support needs, we offer personalized service options through Premium Services options, delivered by global support centers and technical account managers who can also provide proactive risk mitigation services and on-site support services for those with business-critical deployments.
We also offer delivery assurance, technical support and enablement services to partners and developer organizations.
We provide developers with high-quality tools, software development kits, information and services.
Digital Learning Services Adobe Customer Solutions offers a comprehensive portfolio of learning and enablement services to assist our customer and partner teams in the use of our products, including those within Digital Experience, Digital Media and other legacy products and solutions.
Our training portfolio includes a large number of free online self-service learning options on www.training.adobe.com.
Adobe Digital Learning Services also has an extensive portfolio of fee-based learning programs including a wide range of traditional classroom, virtual and on-demand training and certifications delivered by our team of training professionals and partners across the globe.
These core offerings are complemented by our custom learning services, which support our largest enterprise customers and their unique requirements.
We enter into these investments with the intent of securing financial returns as well as for strategic purposes, as they often increase our knowledge of emerging markets and technologies and expand our opportunities to provide Adobe products and services.
We develop our software internally, as well as acquire products or technology developed by others by purchasing the stock or assets of the business entity that owns the technology.
In other instances, we have licensed or purchased the intellectual property ownership rights of programs developed by others with license or technology transfer agreements that may obligate us to pay a flat license fee or royalties, typically based on a dollar amount per unit or a percentage of the revenue generated by those programs.
We license our desktop software and mobile apps to users under ‘click through’ or signed license agreements containing restrictions on duplication, disclosure and transfer.
Similarly, cloud products and services are provided to users under ‘click through’ or signed agreements containing restrictions on access and use.
Our enterprise customers license our hosted offerings as SaaS or Managed Services.
We believe that our transition from perpetual-use software licenses to a subscription-based business model combined with the increased focus on cloud-based computing has and may continue to improve our efforts to combat the pirating of our products.
Mr. Chakravarthy joined Adobe in January 2020 as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Digital Experience and was given responsibility over Worldwide Field Operations in July 2020, when he was appointed Executive Vice President and General Manager, Digital Experience Business and Worldwide Field Operations.
Mr. Wadhwani rejoined Adobe in June 2021 to lead Adobe’s global Digital Media business across Adobe Creative Cloud and Adobe Document Cloud as Chief Business Officer and Executive Vice President, Digital Media.
Scott Belsky 41 Chief Product Officer and Executive Vice President, Creative Cloud Mr. Belsky joined Adobe in December 2017 as Chief Product Officer and Executive Vice President, Creative Cloud.
Prior to Benchmark, Belsky led Adobe's mobile strategy for Creative Cloud from December 2012 to January 2016, having joined the Company through the acquisition of Behance.
Prior to joining Adobe, Ms. Lewnes spent 20 years at Intel Corporation, where she was Vice President of Sales and Marketing.
He joined Adobe in July 2015 as Senior Vice President of Adobe's Cloud Technology & Services organization and Chief Technology Officer and in February 2020, he was appointed Chief Technology Officer and Executive Vice President, Strategy and Growth.
He joined Adobe in April 2012 and served as our Vice President, Intellectual Property and Litigation where he spearheaded strategic initiatives including the Company’s litigation efforts, and its patent, trademark and copyright portfolio strategies until June 2018.
Prior to joining Adobe in December 2018, Mr. Garfield served as the Vice President of Finance of Cloudflare, Inc. commencing in November 2017.
Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have materially affected how we and our customers are operating our businesses, and the duration and extent to which this will impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance remains uncertain.
We have continued to host virtual-only customer experiences, and we may deem it advisable to similarly alter, postpone or cancel entirely additional customer, employee or industry events in the future.
Moreover, the conditions caused by the pandemic has affected the rate of IT spending and may in the future adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our offerings.
We have seen and may continue to see these conditions delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, adversely impact our ability to provide on-site consulting services to our customers, result in extended payment terms, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts or affect attrition rates, all of which could adversely affect our future sales, operating results and overall financial performance.
Global and regional macroeconomic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related impacts on our customers’ business operations and their demand for our products and services may persist for an indefinite period, even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided.
The markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, new industry standards, evolving distribution models, limited barriers to entry, disruptive technology developments, short product life cycles, customer price sensitivity, global market conditions and frequent product introductions (including alternatives with limited functionality available at lower costs or free of charge).
Any of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect our renewal and upsell and cross-sell rates, as well as our ability to attract new customers.
Furthermore, some of our competitors and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages such as greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, broader brand awareness and access to larger customer bases.
As a result of these advantages, potential and current customers might select the products and services of our competitors, causing a loss of our market share.
If we cannot continue to develop, acquire, market and offer new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, our operating results could suffer.
If we fail to anticipate customers’ rapidly changing needs and expectations or adapt to emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer.
We must make long-term investments, develop, acquire or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services.
Additionally, any delay in the development, acquisition, marketing or launch of a new offering or enhancement to an existing offering could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position.
While we offer our products on a variety of hardware platforms, if we cannot continue adapting our products to tablet and mobile devices, or if our competitors can adapt their products more quickly than us, our business could be harmed.
Our future success depends on a variety of factors, including our continued ability to innovate, introduce new products and services efficiently, enhance and integrate our products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological developments.
Integration of our products and services with one another and other companies’ offerings creates an increasingly complex ecosystem that is partly reliant on third parties.
Our ability to acquire other businesses or technologies, make strategic investments or integrate acquired businesses effectively may also be impaired by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, government actions in light of the pandemic, trade tensions and increased global scrutiny of foreign investments.
The success of some of our product and service offerings depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain customers of and contributors to our online marketplaces for creative content.
The success of some of our product and service offerings, such as Adobe Stock, depends on our ability to continue to attract new customers and contributors to these online marketplaces for creative content, as well as our ability to continue to retain existing customers and contributors.
An increase in paying customers has generally resulted in more content from contributors, which increases the size of our collection and in turn attracts new paying customers.
We rely on the functionality and features of our online marketplaces, the size and content of our collection and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts to attract new customers and contributors and retain existing ones.
New technologies may render the features of our online marketplaces obsolete, our collection may fail to grow as anticipated or our marketing efforts may be unsuccessful, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations.
Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Adobe increases our ability to enter new categories, launch new and innovative products to better serve our customers and expand our customer base.
Social and ethical issues relating to the use of new and evolving technologies, such as AI, in our offerings may result in reputational harm and liability.
As with many innovations, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business.
We process and store significant amounts of employee and customer data, a large volume of which is hosted by third- party service providers.
Additionally, failure by Adobe or our customers to remove the accounts of their own employees, or the granting of accounts in an uncontrolled manner, may allow for access by former employees or other unauthorized individuals.
We rely on data centers managed both by Adobe and third parties to host and deliver our services, as well as access, collect, process, use, transmit and store data, and any interruptions or delays in these hosted services, or failures in data collection or transmission could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation.
Much of our business relies on hardware and services that are hosted, managed and controlled directly by Adobe or third-party service providers, including our online store at adobe.com, Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience Cloud solutions.
If our business relationship with a third-party provider of hosting or content delivery services is negatively affected, or if one of our content delivery suppliers were to terminate its agreement with us without adequate notice, we might not be able to deliver the corresponding hosted offerings to our customers, which could subject us to reputational harm, costly and time-intensive notification requirements, and cause us to lose customers and future business.
Occasionally, we migrate data among data centers and to third-party hosted environments.
If a transition among data centers or to third-party service providers encounters unexpected interruptions, unforeseen complexity or unplanned disruptions despite precautions undertaken during the process, this may impair our delivery of products and services to customers and result in increased costs and liabilities, which may harm our operating results, reputation and our business.
If we fail to plan infrastructure capacity appropriately and expand it proportionally with the needs of our customer base, and we experience a rapid and significant demand on the capacity of our data centers or those of third parties, service outages or performance issues could occur, which would impact our customers.
Security vulnerabilities in our products and systems, or in our supply chain, could lead to reduced revenue or to liability claims.
The costs to prevent, eliminate, mitigate, or alleviate cyber- or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities are significant, and our efforts to address these problems, including notifying affected parties, may not be successful or may be delayed and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers.
These risks will likely increase as we expand our hosted offerings, integrate our products and services and store and process more data, including personal information.
Sales cycles for some of our enterprise offerings, including our Adobe Experience Cloud and Adobe Experience Platform solutions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (“ETLAs”) in our Digital Media business, are multi-phased and complex.
We spend substantial time and expense on our sales efforts without assurance that potential customers will ultimately purchase our solutions.
If our customers fail to renew subscriptions in accordance with our expectations, our future revenue and operating results could suffer.
Our Adobe Experience Cloud, Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings typically involve subscription-based offerings pursuant to product and service agreements.
Revenue from our subscription customers is generally recognized ratably over the term of their agreements, which typically range from 1 to 36 months.
Our varied customer base combined with the flexibility we offer in the length of our subscription-based agreements complicates our ability to precisely forecast renewal rates.
Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services, our ability to continue enhancing features and functionality, the reliability (including uptime) of our subscription offerings, the prices of offerings and those offered by our competitors, the actual or perceived information security of our systems and services, decreases in the size of our customer base, reductions in our customers’ spending levels or declines in customer activity as a result of economic downturns or uncertainty in financial markets, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has affected and may continue to affect certain sectors of the economy disproportionately.
If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline.
As our offerings expand and our customer base grows, our relationships with strategic partners become increasingly valuable.
Alternative arrangements for such products and services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, and we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner.
We increasingly utilize the distribution platforms of third parties like Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store for the distribution of certain of our product offerings.
Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers, and may offer or promote products that compete with our product offerings.
If we encounter problems with our third- party customer service and technical support providers, our reputation may be harmed, our ability to sell our offerings could be adversely affected, and we could lose customers and associated revenue.
We may be unable to scale our infrastructure effectively or as quickly as our competitors in these markets, and our revenue may not increase to offset these expected increases in costs and operating expenses, causing our results to suffer.
Failure to manage our sales, partner and distribution channels effectively could result in a loss of revenue and harm to our business.
We contract with a number of software distributors and other strategic partners, none of which are individually responsible for a material amount of our total net revenue for any recent period.
Our distributors and other channel partners are independent businesses that we do not control.
We cannot be certain that our distribution channel will continue to market or sell our products and services effectively.
If our partner and distribution channels are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenue.
We also distribute some products and services through our OEM channel, and if our OEMs decide not to bundle our applications on their devices, our results could suffer.
In addition, the financial health of our distributors and partners and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success.
We also sell some of our products and services through our direct sales force.
Our business could be seriously harmed if our expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue and we are unable to achieve the efficiencies we anticipate.
Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and security issues and expanding laws could impact our business models and expose us to increased liability.
As a global company, Adobe is subject to global data protection, privacy and security laws, regulations and codes of conduct that apply to our various business units and data processing activities.
Additionally, we collect and store information on behalf of our business customers and if our customers fail to comply with contractual obligations or applicable laws, it could result in litigation or reputational harm to us.
Our intellectual property portfolio is a valuable asset.
Infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights could result in lost revenues and ultimately reduce their value.
We actively combat software piracy as we enforce our intellectual property rights, but we nonetheless lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software.
If piracy activities continue at historical levels or increase, they may further harm our business.
Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention of management and key personnel.
In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products, in some cases to fulfill contractual obligations with our customers.
Risks associated with licensing and selling products and services to government entities include more extended sales and collection cycles, varying governmental budgeting processes and adherence to complex procurement regulations and other government-specific contractual requirements.
Risks Related to Financial Performance Subscription offerings could create risks related to the timing of revenue recognition.
We generally recognize revenue from subscription offerings ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which typically range from 1 to 36 months.
As a result, most of the subscription revenue we report in each quarter is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters.
Declines in new or renewed subscriptions may decrease our revenue in future quarters.
Our subscription model could also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue from subscription-based or hosted services through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription term.
Additionally, in connection with our sales efforts to enterprise customers, a number of factors could affect our revenue, including longer-than-expected sales and implementation cycles, potential deferral of revenue and alternative licensing arrangements.
If any of our assumptions about revenue from our subscription-based offerings prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated.
We are a highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and website for our development, marketing, operations, support, hosted services and sales activities.
In addition, some of our businesses rely on third-party hosted services, and we do not control the operation of third-party data center facilities serving our customers from around the world, which increases our vulnerability.
As a result, current or potential customers may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services.
If economic growth in countries where we do business slows, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases, advertising spending or marketing spending, and we have already experienced and may continue to experience the impact of a global decline in advertising spend as the pandemic continues to unfold.
This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, more extended sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition.
Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers may include multiple goods and services.
For example, some of our offerings include both on-premise and/or on-device software licenses and cloud services.
Determining whether the software licenses and the cloud services are distinct from each other, and therefore performance obligations to be accounted for separately, or not distinct from each other, and therefore part of a single performance obligation, may require significant judgment.
We have concluded that the on-premise/on-device software licenses and cloud services provided in our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offerings are not distinct from each other such that revenue from each offering should be recognized ratably over the subscription period for which the cloud services are provided.
In reaching this conclusion, we considered the nature of our promise to Creative Cloud and Document Cloud customers, which is to provide a complete end-to-end creative design or document workflow solution that operates seamlessly across multiple devices and teams.
We fulfill this promise by providing access to a solution that integrates cloud-based and on-premise/on-device features that, together through their integration, provide functionalities, utility and workflow efficiencies that could not be obtained from either the on-premise/on-device software or cloud services on their own.
Cloud-based features that are integral to our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings and that work together with the on-premise/on-device software include, but are not limited to: Creative Cloud Libraries, which enable customers to access their work, settings, preferences and other assets seamlessly across desktop and mobile devices and collaborate across teams in real time; shared reviews which enable simultaneous editing and commenting of PDFs across desktop, mobile and web; automatic cloud rendering of a design which enables it to be worked on in multiple mediums; and Sensei, Adobe’s cloud-hosted artificial intelligence and machine learning framework, which enables features such as automated photo-editing, photograph content-awareness, natural language processing, optical character recognition and automated document tagging.
Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date.
Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to: • future expected cash flows from software license sales, subscriptions, support agreements, consulting contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; • expected costs to develop acquired technologies and patents internally into commercially viable products; 38 Table of Contents • historical and expected customer attrition rates and anticipated growth in revenue from acquired customers; • the acquired company’s trade name and trademarks as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and trademarks will continue to be used in the combined company’s product portfolio; • the expected use of the acquired assets; and • discount rates.
In connection with the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the deferred revenue obligations assumed.
In our Digital Experience segment, we continued to experience growth in software-based subscription revenue across our portfolio of offerings.
Digital Media In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering which provides desktop tools, mobile apps and cloud-based services for designing, creating and publishing rich and immersive content.
Creative Cloud delivers value with deep, cross-product integration, frequent product updates and feature enhancements, cloud-enabled services including storage and syncing of files across users’ machines, machine learning and artificial intelligence, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities, tools which assist with enterprise deployments and team collaboration, and affordable pricing for cost- sensitive customers.
We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, students, teams and enterprises.
We expect Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by attracting new users with new features and products, continuing to acquire users with our low cost of entry and delivery of additional features and value to Creative Cloud, and delivering new features and technologies to existing customers with our latest releases.
We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service.
Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow our recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably.
We continue to implement strategies that are designed to accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offerings.
These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new desktop and mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to experience and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud.
Because of the shift towards Creative Cloud subscriptions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (“ETLAs”), revenue from perpetual licensing of our Creative products has been immaterial to our business.
We are also a market leader with our Document Cloud offerings built around our Adobe Acrobat family of products, including Adobe Acrobat Reader DC, and a set of integrated mobile apps and cloud-based document services, including Adobe Scan and Adobe Sign.
Document Cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices, includes Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe Sign, and a set of integrated services enabling users to create, review, approve, sign and track documents whether on a desktop or mobile device.
Adobe Acrobat DC is offered both through subscription and perpetual licenses.
As part of our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud strategies, we utilize a data-driven operating model (“DDOM”) and our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions to raise awareness of our products, drive new customer acquisition, engagement and retention, and optimize customer journeys.
As a result, we observed strong growth in Digital Media revenue during fiscal 2021.
Annualized Recurring Revenue (“ARR”) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment.
We calculate ARR as follows: Annual Value of Creative Cloud Subscriptions and Services Creative ARR + Annual Creative ETLA Contract Value Annual Value of Document Cloud Subscriptions and Services Document Cloud ARR + Annual Document Cloud ETLA Contract Value Creative ARR Digital Media ARR + Document Cloud ARR Creative ARR exiting fiscal 2021 was $10.30 billion, up from $8.78 billion at the end of fiscal 2020.
Document Cloud ARR exiting fiscal 2021 was $1.93 billion, up from $1.47 billion at the end of fiscal 2020.
Total Digital Media ARR grew to $12.24 billion at the end of fiscal 2021, up from $10.26 billion at the end of fiscal 2020.
Creative revenue in fiscal 2021 was $9.55 billion, up from $7.74 billion in fiscal 2020 and representing 23% year-over-year growth.
Document Cloud revenue in fiscal 2021 was $1.97 billion, up from $1.50 billion in fiscal 2020 and representing 32% year-over-year growth which reflected an increase in demand driven by new user acquisition for our Document Cloud subscription offerings.
Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $11.52 billion in fiscal 2021, up from $9.23 billion in fiscal 2020 and representing 25% year-over- year growth.
These increases were driven by strong net new user growth, including those resulting from the current work-from- home environment reflecting expanded digital engagement.
Digital Experience We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Experience segment.
The Adobe Experience Cloud applications, services and platform are designed to manage customer journeys, enable shoppable experiences and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry.
Our differentiation and competitive advantage is strengthened by our ability to use the Adobe Experience Platform to connect our comprehensive set of solutions.
Adobe Experience Cloud delivers solutions for our customers across the following strategic growth pillars: • Data insights and audiences.
Our solutions, including Adobe Analytics, Adobe Experience Platform, Customer Journey Analytics, Adobe Audience Manager and our Real-time Customer Data Platform, deliver robust customer profiles and AI-powered analytics across the customer journey to provide timely, relevant experiences across platforms.
Our solutions help customers manage, deliver and optimize content delivery, through Adobe Experience Manager and to enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses, with Adobe Commerce.
Our solutions help businesses manage, test, target, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across B2E use cases, including through Marketo Engage, Adobe Campaign, Adobe Target and Journey Optimizer.
We offer Adobe Workfront, a work management platform directed toward marketers to orchestrate campaign workflows.
In addition to chief marketing officers, chief revenue officers and digital marketers, users of our Digital Experience solutions include advertisers, campaign managers, publishers, data analysts, content managers, social marketers, marketing executives and information management and technology executives.
These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings.
By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business 41 Table of Contents with the science of our Digital Experience business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop.
We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Digital Experience solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, systems integrators and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers.
Digital Experience revenue was $3.87 billion in fiscal 2021, up from $3.13 billion in fiscal 2020 which represents 24% year-over-year growth.
Driving this increase was the increase in subscription revenue across our offerings which grew to $3.38 billion in fiscal 2021 from $2.66 billion in fiscal 2020, representing 27% year-over-year growth.
Also contributing to the increase in Digital Experience subscription revenue was revenue associated with Workfront’s workflow platform offerings.
We expect that the addition of Workfront, and continued demand across our portfolio of Digital Experience solutions, will drive revenue growth in future years.
However, while our revenue and earnings are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model, the duration of the pandemic and the broader implications of the macro-economic recovery on our business remain uncertain.
• Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $12.24 billion as of December 3, 2021 increased by $1.98 billion, or 19%, from $10.26 billion as of November 27, 2020.
The change in our Digital Media ARR was primarily due to new user adoption of our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings.
• Creative revenue of $9.55 billion increased by $1.81 billion, or 23%, during fiscal 2021, from $7.74 billion in fiscal 2020.
Document Cloud revenue of $1.97 billion increased by $477 million, or 32%, during fiscal 2021, from $1.50 billion in fiscal 2020.
The increases were primarily due to subscription revenue growth associated with our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings.
• Digital Experience revenue of $3.87 billion increased by $742 million, or 24%, during fiscal 2021, from $3.13 billion in fiscal 2020.
The increase was primarily due to subscription revenue growth across our offerings, including from our Workfront acquisition.
• Remaining performance obligations of $13.99 billion as of December 3, 2021 increased by $2.65 billion, or 23%, from $11.34 billion as of November 27, 2020, primarily due to new contracts and renewals for our Digital Media and Digital Experience offerings, as well as impacts from our Workfront acquisition.
• Cost of revenue of $1.87 billion increased by $143 million, or 8%, during fiscal 2021, from $1.72 billion in fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in hosting services and data center costs, partially offset by decreases in Advertising Cloud media costs.
• Operating expenses of $8.12 billion increased by $1.21 billion, or 17%, during fiscal 2021, from $6.91 billion in fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in base and incentive compensation and related benefits costs, as well as increased marketing spend.
42 Table of Contents • Net income of $4.82 billion decreased by $438 million, or 8%, during fiscal 2021 from $5.26 billion in fiscal 2020 primarily due to the change in provision for income taxes, which was largely driven by the non-recurring benefit from income taxes recognized in fiscal 2020 associated with our intra-entity transfers of certain intellectual property rights.
Revenue % Change (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021-2020 Subscription $ 14,573 $ 11,626 $ 9,634 25 % Percentage of total revenue 92 % 90 % 86 % Product 555 507 648 9 % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 4 % 6 % Services and other 657 735 889 (11) % Percentage of total revenue 4 % 6 % 8 % Total revenue $ 15,785 $ 12,868 $ 11,171 23 % Subscription Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings, and related support, including Creative Cloud and certain of our Adobe Experience Cloud and Document Cloud services.
We primarily recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning with commencement of service.
Subscription revenue related to certain offerings, where fees are based on a number of transactions and invoicing is aligned to the pattern of performance, customer benefit and consumption, are recognized on a usage basis.
We have the following reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising.
Subscription revenue by reportable segment for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 is as follows: % Change (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021-2020 Digital Media $ 11,048 $ 8,813 $ 7,208 25 % Digital Experience 3,379 2,660 2,280 27 % Publishing and Advertising 146 153 146 (5) % Total subscription revenue $ 14,573 $ 11,626 $ 9,634 25 % Product Our product revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to licenses for on-premise software purchased on a perpetual basis, for a fixed period of time or based on usage for certain of our OEM and royalty agreements.
We primarily recognize product revenue at the point in time the software is available to the customer, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met.
Services and Other Our services and other revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to consulting, training, maintenance and support for certain on-premise licenses that are recognized at a point in time and our advertising offerings.
We typically sell our consulting contracts on a time-and-materials and fixed-fee basis.
These revenues are recognized as the services are performed for time and materials contracts and on a relative performance basis for fixed-fee contracts.
Transaction-based advertising revenue is recognized on a usage basis as we satisfy the performance obligations to our customers.
Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers.
• Digital Experience—Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce.
Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite.
• Publishing and Advertising—Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings.
Revenue associated with our Creative offerings, which includes our Creative Cloud, increased during fiscal 2021 primarily due to increases in net new subscriptions across our Creative Cloud offerings.
Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family and Adobe Sign service, increased during fiscal 2021 primarily due to increases in subscription revenue driven by strong new user acquisition of our Document Cloud offerings.
Digital Experience Revenue from Digital Experience increased $742 million during fiscal 2021, as compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to subscription revenue growth across our offerings including from our Workfront acquisition.
44 Table of Contents Geographical Information % Change (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021-2020 Americas $ 8,996 $ 7,454 $ 6,506 21 % Percentage of total revenue 57 % 58 % 58 % EMEA 4,252 3,400 2,975 25 % Percentage of total revenue 27 % 26 % 27 % APAC 2,537 2,014 1,690 26 % Percentage of total revenue 16 % 16 % 15 % Total revenue $ 15,785 $ 12,868 $ 11,171 23 % Overall revenue during fiscal 2021 increased in all geographic regions as compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in Digital Media revenue and, to a lesser extent, increases in Digital Experience revenue.
Cost of Revenue % Change (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021-2020 Subscription $ 1,374 $ 1,108 $ 926 24 % Percentage of total revenue 9 % 9 % 8 % Product 41 36 40 14 % Percentage of total revenue * * * Services and other 450 578 707 (22) % Percentage of total revenue 3 % 4 % 6 % Total cost of revenue $ 1,865 $ 1,722 $ 1,673 8 % _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1% Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party hosting services and data center costs, including expenses related to operating our network infrastructure.
Cost of subscription revenue also includes compensation costs associated with network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, royalty fees, software costs and amortization of certain intangible assets.
Cost of subscription revenue increased due to the following: Components of % Change 2021-2020 Hosting services and data center costs 12 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 5 Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 4 Royalty costs 3 Total change 24 % 45 Table of Contents Product Cost of product revenue is primarily comprised of third-party royalties, amortization of certain intangible assets, localization costs and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products.
Services and Other Cost of services and other revenue is primarily comprised of compensation and contracted costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support, and hosting services and data center costs.
Cost of services and other also includes media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources for our transaction-based Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings.
Cost of services and other decreased during fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 mainly due to lower media costs related to Advertising Cloud offerings that were discontinued beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Operating Expenses % Change (dollars in millions) 2021 2020 2019 2021-2020 Research and development $ 2,540 $ 2,188 $ 1,930 16 % Percentage of total revenue 16 % 17 % 17 % Sales and marketing 4,321 3,591 3,244 20 % Percentage of total revenue 27 % 28 % 29 % General and administrative 1,085 968 881 12 % Percentage of total revenue 7 % 8 % 8 % Amortization of intangibles 172 162 175 6 % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 1 % 2 % Total operating expenses $ 8,118 $ 6,909 $ 6,230 17 % Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of compensation and contracted costs associated with software development, third-party hosting services and data center costs, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in development activities.
Research and development expenses increased due to the following: Components of % Change 2021-2020 Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 8 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 6 Professional and consulting fees 2 Total change 16 % We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced offerings and solutions.
We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools.
Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of compensation costs, amortization of contract acquisition costs, including sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel.
Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and events, public relations and other market development programs.
46 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expenses increased due to the following: Components of % Change 2021-2020 Marketing spend related to campaigns, events and overall marketing efforts 10 % Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 5 Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 3 Transaction fees 2 Total change 20 % General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and contracted costs, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel.
General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance.
General and administrative expenses increased due to the following: Components of % Change 2021-2020 Incentive compensation, cash and stock-based 9 % Base compensation and related benefits associated with headcount 4 Bad debt expense (4) Software licenses 2 Various individually insignificant items 1 Total change 12 % Amortization of Intangibles Amortization expense increased during fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to amortization expense associated with intangible assets purchased through our acquisition of Workfront.
As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred.
Other uses of cash include business acquisitions, purchases of property and equipment and payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards.
The primary working capital sources of cash were net income together with increases in deferred revenue driven by Digital Media and Digital Experience offerings.
The increases in prepaid expenses and other assets were driven by sales commissions paid and capitalized and the timing of billings and payments associated with certain vendors.
We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff, and facilities expansion.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operations Founded in 1982, Adobe is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world.
We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers; communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, smartphones, other electronic devices and digital media formats.
We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices.
We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com.
We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud- based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models.
We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators (“SIs”), independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).
In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions.
Basis of Presentation The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include those of Adobe and its subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions.
Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition Our revenue is derived from the sale of cloud-enabled software subscriptions, cloud-hosted offerings, term-based, royalty, and perpetual software licenses, associated software maintenance and support plans, consulting services, training and technical support.
Revenue is recognized when a contract exists between us and a customer and upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which may be 60 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations, or in the case of offerings such as cloud- enabled Creative Cloud and Document Cloud, accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Subscription, Product and Services Offerings We enter into revenue arrangements in which a customer may purchase a combination of cloud-enabled subscriptions, cloud-hosted offerings, term-based, royalty, and perpetual software licenses, associated software maintenance and support plans, consulting services, training and technical support.
Certain revenue arrangements provide customers with unilateral cancellation rights, or options to either renew monthly on-premise term-based licenses or use committed funds to purchase other Adobe products or services.
Fully hosted subscription services (SaaS) allow customers to access hosted software during the contractual term without taking possession of the software.
Cloud-hosted subscription services may be sold on a fee-per-subscription period basis or based on consumption or usage.
We recognize revenue ratably over the contractual service term for hosted services that are priced based on a committed number of transactions where the delivery and consumption of the benefit of the services occur evenly over time, beginning on the date the services associated with the committed transactions are first made available to the customer and continuing through the end of the contractual service term.
Fees based on a number of transactions, where invoicing is aligned to the pattern of performance, customer benefit and consumption, are typically accounted for utilizing the “as-invoiced” practical expedient.
Revenue for subscriptions sold as a fee per period is recognized ratably over the contractual term as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit of the underlying service.
When cloud-enabled services are highly integrated and interrelated with on-premise software, such as in our cloud- enabled Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings, the individual components are not considered distinct and revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription period for which the cloud-enabled services are provided.
The subscription support plans related to those customer arrangements whose revenues we classify as subscription revenues represent stand-ready performance obligations.
Revenue from these subscription support plans is recognized ratably over their respective contractual terms and classified as subscription revenue.
Licenses for on-premise software may be purchased on a perpetual basis, as a subscription for a fixed period of time or based on usage for certain of our OEM and royalty agreements.
Revenue from non-cloud enabled on-premise licenses without unilateral cancellation rights or monthly renewal options is recognized at the point in time the software is available to the customer, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met, and classified as product revenue on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Revenue from on-premise term license or term licensing arrangements with unilateral cancellation rights or monthly renewal options, and any associated maintenance and support, is classified as subscription revenue.
Our services and other revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to consulting, training, maintenance and support for certain on-premise licenses that are recognized at a point in time and our advertising offerings.
We typically sell our consulting contracts on a time-and-materials and fixed-fee basis.
These revenues are recognized as the services are performed for time and materials contracts and on a relative performance basis for fixed-fee contracts.
Our transaction-based advertising offerings, where fees are based on a number of impressions per month and invoicing is aligned to the pattern of performance, customer benefit and consumption, are typically accounted for utilizing the “as-invoiced” practical expedient.
For example, some of our offerings include both on-premise and/or on-device software licenses and cloud services.
Determining whether the software licenses and the cloud services are distinct from each other, and therefore performance obligations to be accounted for separately, or not distinct from 61 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) each other, and therefore part of a single performance obligation, may require significant judgment.
We have concluded that the on-premise/on-device software licenses and cloud services provided in our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offerings are not distinct from each other such that revenue from each offering should be recognized ratably over the subscription period for which the cloud services are provided.
In reaching this conclusion, we considered the nature of our promise to Creative Cloud and Document Cloud customers, which is to provide a complete end-to-end creative design or document workflow solution that operates seamlessly across multiple devices and teams.
We fulfill this promise by providing access to a solution that integrates cloud-based and on-premise/on-device features that, together through their integration, provide functionalities, utility and workflow efficiencies that could not be obtained from either the on-premise/on-device software or cloud services on their own.
Cloud-based features that are integral to our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings and that work together with the on-premise/on-device software include, but are not limited to: Creative Cloud Libraries, which enable customers to access their work, settings, preferences and other assets seamlessly across desktop and mobile devices and collaborate across teams in real time; shared reviews which enable simultaneous editing and commenting of PDFs across desktop, mobile and web; automatic cloud rendering of a design which enables it to be worked on in multiple mediums; and Sensei, Adobe’s cloud-hosted artificial intelligence and machine learning framework, which enables features such as automated photo-editing, photograph content-awareness, natural language processing, optical character recognition and automated document tagging.
When revenue arrangements include components of third-party goods and services, for example in transactions which involve resale, fulfillment or providing advertising impressions to our end customer, we evaluate whether we are the principal, and report revenues on a gross basis, or an agent, and report revenues on a net basis.
We offer limited rights of return, rebates and price protection of our products under various policies and programs with our distributors, resellers and/or end-user customers.
We offer rebates to our distributors, resellers and/or end-user customers.
In such instances, we estimate and accrue license revenue.
We do not estimate variable consideration for our sales and usage-based license royalty agreements, consistent with the associated exception for sales and usage-based royalties for the license of intellectual property under the revenue recognition standard.
Our cash flow assumptions consider historical and forecasted revenue, operating costs and other relevant factors.
Advertising Expenses Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Advertising expenses for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 were $540 million, $362 million and $221 million, respectively.
Credit risk in receivables is limited to OEMs, dealers and distributors of hardware and software products to the retail market, customers to whom we license software directly and our SaaS offerings.
If we license our software or provide SaaS services to a customer where we have a reason to believe the customer’s ability and intention to pay is not probable, the arrangement is not considered to be a revenue contract.
Our business is organized into the following reportable segments: • Digital Media—Our Digital Media segment provides products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share, engage with and collaborate on documents and creative content.
Our customers include creative professionals, including photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers and game developers, communicators, including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers, and consumers.
• Digital Experience—Our Digital Experience segment provides an integrated platform and set of applications and services that enable brands and businesses to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer 66 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) experiences that span from analytics to commerce.
Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers and executives across the C-suite.
• Publishing and Advertising—Our Publishing and Advertising segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities, including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development, high-end printing and our Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings.
Our segment revenue and results for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 were as follows: Digital Digital Publishing and (dollars in millions) Media Experience Advertising Total Fiscal 2021 Revenue $ 11,520 $ 3,867 $ 398 $ 15,785 Cost of revenue 429 1,321 115 1,865 Gross profit $ 11,091 $ 2,546 $ 283 $ 13,920 Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 96 % 66 % 71 % 88 % Fiscal 2020 Revenue $ 9,233 $ 3,125 $ 510 $ 12,868 Cost of revenue 352 1,126 244 1,722 Gross profit $ 8,881 $ 1,999 $ 266 $ 11,146 Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 96 % 64 % 52 % 87 % Fiscal 2019 Revenue $ 7,707 $ 2,795 $ 669 $ 11,171 Cost of revenue 290 1,056 327 1,673 Gross profit $ 7,417 $ 1,739 $ 342 $ 9,498 Gross profit as a percentage of revenue 96 % 62 % 51 % 85 % We generally categorize revenue by geographic area based on where the customer manages their utilization of our offerings.
Contract assets are typically related to subscription and hosted service contracts where the transaction price allocated to the satisfied performance obligations exceeds the value of billings to date.
Deferred Revenue and Remaining Performance Obligations Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services, including non-cancellable and non-refundable committed funds and refundable customer deposits.
Deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when transfer of control to customers has occurred.
Customers are typically invoiced for these agreements in regular installments and revenue is recognized ratably over the contractual subscription period.
The deferred revenue balance is influenced by several factors, including the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, 68 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) invoice timing, size and new business linearity within the quarter.
Deferred revenue does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year non-cancellable subscription agreements.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, such as invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, and not to receive financing from our customers.
Arrangements with some of our enterprise customers with non-cancellable and non- refundable committed funds provide options to either renew monthly on-premise term-based licenses or use some or all funds to purchase other Adobe products or services.
As of November 27, 2020, the balance of deferred revenue was $3.76 billion.
During the year ended December 3, 2021, approximately $3.55 billion of revenue was recognized that was included in the balance of deferred revenue as of November 27, 2020.
We applied practical expedients to exclude amounts related to performance obligations that are billed and recognized as they are delivered, optional purchases that do not represent material rights, sales- and usage-based royalties not yet consumed and any estimated amounts of variable consideration that are subject to constraint.
During fiscal 2021 and 2020, we amortized $212 million and $186 million of capitalized contract acquisition costs into sales and marketing expense, respectively.
Capitalized contract acquisition costs were $611 million and $530 million as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020, of which $406 million and $352 million was long-term and included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, 69 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) respectively.
Significant Customers For all periods presented, there were no customers that represented at least 10% of net revenue or that were responsible for over 10% of our trade receivables.
Weighted Average (dollars in millions) Amount Useful Life (years) Purchased technology $ 331 4 In-process research and development (1) 19 N/A Trademarks 4 3 Customer contracts and relationships 3 10 Total identifiable intangible assets 357 Net liabilities assumed (39) N/A Goodwill (2) 865 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,183 _________________________________________ (1) Capitalized as purchased technology and considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts.
70 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Workfront On December 7, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a workflow platform, for approximately $1.52 billion in cash consideration.
The table below represents the final purchase price allocation to total identifiable intangible assets acquired and net liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values as of December 7, 2020.
During fiscal 2021, we recorded immaterial purchase accounting adjustments based on changes to management’s estimates and assumptions in regards to net tax liabilities assumed and their related impact to goodwill.
Weighted Average (dollars in millions) Amount Useful Life (years) Customer contracts and relationships $ 290 10 Purchased technology 100 3 Backlog 40 2 Trademarks 30 5 Total identifiable intangible assets 460 Net liabilities assumed (31) N/A Goodwill (1) 1,095 N/A Total purchase price $ 1,524 _________________________________________ (1) Non-deductible for tax-purposes.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total final purchase price was allocated to Allegorithmic’s net tangible and intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The changes in fair value of these 76 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) contracts are recorded to other income (expense), net in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
(2) In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our new Publishing and Advertising segment, which combined Advertising Cloud with our previous Publishing segment.
78 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Other intangibles, net, as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 were as follows: (in millions) 2021 2020 Gross Gross Carrying Accumulated Carrying Accumulated Amount Amortization Net Amount Amortization Net Customer contracts and relationships $ 1,213 $ (379) $ 834 $ 958 $ (289) $ 669 Purchased technology 1,053 (344) 709 756 (347) 409 Trademarks 376 (128) 248 384 (122) 262 Other 60 (31) 29 84 (65) 19 Other intangibles, net $ 2,702 $ (882) $ 1,820 $ 2,182 $ (823) $ 1,359 In fiscal 2021, other intangibles increased primarily due to identifiable intangible assets acquired through Workfront and Frame.io, partially offset by certain other intangibles associated with our previous acquisitions that became fully amortized and were removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
ACCRUED EXPENSES Accrued expenses as of December 3, 2021 and November 27, 2020 consisted of the following: (in millions) 2021 2020 Accrued compensation and benefits $ 490 $ 375 Accrued bonuses 455 330 Refund liabilities 128 127 Taxes payable 119 95 Accrued corporate marketing 96 134 Royalties payable 40 34 Accrued hosting fees 37 66 Accrued interest expense 34 32 Other 337 229 Accrued expenses $ 1,736 $ 1,422 79 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) Other primarily includes accrued media costs, collateral received related to master netting arrangements and general corporate accruals for local and regional expenses, including accruals for fees associated with the cancellation of corporate events.
As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits totaling $1.35 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred.
85 Table of Contents ADOBE INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) As of December 3, 2021, there was $2.26 billion of unrecognized compensation cost, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, related to non-vested stock-based awards and purchase rights which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.23 years.
The following table summarizes our non-cancellable unconditional purchase obligations for each of the next five years and thereafter as of December 3, 2021: (in millions) Fiscal Year Purchase Obligations 2022 $ 711 2023 471 2024 174 2025 18 2026 7 Thereafter — Total $ 1,381 Royalties We have royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings and products.
Intellectual property disputes and litigation may be very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel.
Third- party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from licensing certain of our products or offering certain of our services, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products or services, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements and service agreements.
In connection with our anti-piracy efforts, conducted both internally and through organizations such as the Business Software Alliance, from time to time we undertake litigation against alleged copyright infringers.
Performance obligations in cloud-enabled software subscriptions As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, cloud-enabled services are highly integrated and interrelated with on-premise or on-device software licenses in the Company’s Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offerings.
Because of this, the cloud-based services and the on-premise/on-device software licenses are not considered distinct from each other and the applicable subscription is accounted for as a single performance obligation.
We identified the assessment of performance obligations in these cloud-enabled software subscription offerings as a critical audit matter.
A high degree of subjective auditor judgment was required to assess the nature of the Company’s Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings, their intended benefit to customers as an integrated offering, and the level of integration that exists between the cloud-enabled services and the on-premise/on-device licenses.
We read the Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offering agreements to understand the contractual terms and conditions.
We participated in product demonstrations and performed interviews with the Company’s product and engineering department to both understand and observe specific functionalities of the integrated offering and evaluate the nature of the promise made to the Company’s Creative Cloud and Document Cloud customers.
We evaluated the features and functionalities of the Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription that can be accessed only when using the on-premise/on-device software while connected to the Adobe cloud to assess that customers receive the intended benefit from each solution only as an integrated offering.
One to Adobe Deferred Compensation 10-K 1/21/20 10.6B 000-15175 Plan* 10.7 Credit Agreement, dated as of October 17, 2018, among 8-K 10/19/18 10.1 000-15175 Adobe Inc. and certain subsidiaries as Borrowers, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank National Association, U.S Bank National Association, Société Générale S.A. as Co-Syndication Agents, Bank of America, N.A.