DISNEY MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT DISTRIBUTION The DMED segment encompasses the Company’s global film and episodic television content production and distribution activities.
Content is distributed by a single organization across three significant lines of business: Linear Networks, Direct-to- Consumer and Content Sales/Licensing and content is generally created by three production/content licensing groups: Studios, General Entertainment and Sports.
cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top (e.g.
YouTube TV) service providers) (MVPDs) and television stations affiliated with ABC for the right to deliver our programming to their customers • Advertising - Sales of advertising time/space at Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer • Subscription fees - Fees charged to customers/subscribers for our DTC streaming services • TV/SVOD distribution - Licensing fees and other revenue for the right to use our film and television productions and revenue from fees charged to customers to view our sports programming (“pay-per-view”) and streaming access to films that are also playing in theaters (“Premier Access”).
TV/SVOD distribution revenue is primarily reported in Content Sales/Licensing, except for pay-per-view and Premier Access revenue, which is reported in Direct-to- Consumer • Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our film productions to theaters • Home entertainment - Sale of our film and television content to retailers and distributors in home video formats 3 • Other content sales/licensing revenue - Revenues from licensing our music, ticket sales from stage play performances and fees from licensing our intellectual properties (“IP”) for use in stage plays • Other revenue - Fees from sub-licensing of sports programming rights (reported in Linear Networks) and sales of post- production services (reported with Content Sales/Licensing) The significant expenses of DMED are as follows: • Operating expenses consist primarily of programming and production costs, technical support costs, operating labor, distribution costs and costs of sales.
Internal content is generally produced by the following television studios: ABC Signature; 20th Television; Disney Television Animation; FX Productions; and various studios for which we commission productions for our branded channels and DTC streaming services ◦ Sports - Primarily acquisition of professional and college sports programming rights and related production costs • Selling, general and administrative costs • Depreciation and amortization Media and Entertainment Distribution Strategy Shifting consumer preferences for consumption of video content, and in particular the increasingly widespread adoption of video streaming technology, has significantly disrupted the traditional means and patterns of distribution for film and television content.
In general, film content was traditionally distributed first in the theatrical market, followed by the home entertainment market and then in the TV/SVOD market.
Episodic television content was traditionally distributed at linear networks and then in the TV/SVOD market.
In response to these changes, the Company has significantly increased its focus on distribution of content via our own DTC streaming services relative to distribution along traditional patterns.
Although the Company continues to monetize a significant amount of its content in the traditional manner, our focus on our own DTC distribution has had a number of impacts including but not limited to: • in some cases, we are producing exclusive content for our DTC streaming services; • rather than selling our content in the TV/SVOD market, we may choose to distribute it on our DTC streaming services; • in part because of the impact of COVID-19 on theatrical markets around the world, we may alter our traditional theatrical distribution approach, for example by making a film available on our DTC streaming services at the same time it is in theaters; and • we may choose to offer our content in pay-per-view format on our own DTC streaming services (e.g.
Premier Access) in addition to distributing it in traditional home entertainment markets.
Over time, all else being equal, these impacts will tend to increase revenue at Direct-to-Consumer and reduce revenue at Linear Networks and Content Sales/Licensing.
Generally, the Company’s networks provide programming under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs that include contractually specified rates on a per subscriber basis.
The amounts that we can charge to MVPDs for our networks is largely dependent on the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide and the competitive market for programming services.
Linear Networks consist of our domestic and international branded television channels.
4 Domestic Channels Our domestic channels include Cable operations comprising Disney, ESPN, Freeform, FX and National Geographic branded channels and Broadcasting operations comprising ABC and eight owned ABC affiliated television stations.
Cable Disney Channels Branded television channels include: Disney Channel; Disney Junior; and Disney XD (collectively Disney Channels).
Disney Channels also includes the DisneyNOW App and website.
The channel features live-action comedy series, animated programming and preschool series as well as original movies and theatrical films.
The channel features a mix of live-action and animated programming.
ESPN Branded television channels include nine 24-hour domestic television sports channels: ESPN and ESPN2 (both of which are dedicated to professional and college sports as well as sports news and original programming); ESPNU (which is devoted to college sports); ESPNEWS (which simulcasts weekday ESPN Radio programming, re-airs select ESPN studio shows and airs a variety of other programming); SEC Network (which is dedicated to Southeastern Conference college athletics); ESPN Classic (which airs rebroadcasts of famous sporting events, sports documentaries and sports-themed movies); Longhorn Network (which is dedicated to The University of Texas athletics); ESPN Deportes (which airs professional and college sports as well as studio shows in Spanish); and ACC Network (which is dedicated to Atlantic Coast Conference college athletics).
ESPN also includes the following: • ESPN.com, which delivers sports news, information and video on internet-connected devices, with approximately 20 editions in five languages across six countries globally.
In the U.S., ESPN.com also features live video streams of ESPN channels to authenticated MVPD subscribers.
Non-subscribers have limited access to certain content.
• ESPN App, which delivers scores, news, stories, highlights, short form video, podcasts and live audio, with fourteen editions in three languages globally.
In the U.S., the ESPN App also features live video streams of ESPN’s linear channels and exclusive events to authenticated MVPD subscribers.
Non-subscribers have limited access to certain content.
National Geographic Channels Branded television channels include: National Geographic; Nat Geo Wild; and Nat Geo Mundo (collectively National Geographic Channels).
5 The number of domestic subscribers (in millions) for the Company’s significant cable channels as estimated by Nielsen Media Research(1) as of September 2021 (except where noted) are as follows: Subscribers(2) Disney Disney Channel 76 Disney Junior 57 Disney XD 56 ESPN ESPN 76 ESPN2 76 ESPNU 51 ESPNEWS(3) 59 SEC Network(3) 55 ACC Network(3) 42 Freeform 76 FX Channels FX 77 FXX 72 FXM 47 National Geographic Channels National Geographic 76 National Geographic Wild 51 (1) As a result of COVID-19, we understand there have been disruptions in Nielsen Media Research’s ability to collect in- home data, which may have had an impact on the estimated subscriber counts at September 2020 and September 2021.
(2) Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts.
(3) Because Nielsen Media Research does not measure this channel, estimated subscribers are according to SNL Kagan as of December 2020.
ABC is also available digitally through the ABC App and website to authenticated MVPD subscribers.
Non- subscribers have more limited access to on-demand episodes.
ABC provides online access to in-depth worldwide news and certain other programming through various Company operated and third party distribution platforms.
6 The stations we own are as follows: Television Market TV Station Market Ranking(1) WABC New York, NY 1 KABC Los Angeles, CA 2 WLS Chicago, IL 3 WPVI Philadelphia, PA 4 KGO San Francisco, CA 6 KTRK Houston, TX 8 WTVD Raleigh-Durham, NC 24 KFSN Fresno, CA 55 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2021. International Channels Our International Channels focus on General Entertainment, Sports and/or Family programming and operate under four significant brands: Disney; ESPN; Fox; and Star.
The channels air programming from the Company’s content production groups, locally produced content and licensed programming.
The Company’s increased focus on DTC distribution in international markets is expected to negatively impact the International Channels business as we shift the primary means of monetizing our content from licensing of linear channels to distribution on our DTC platforms.
Fox branded channels air a variety of scripted, reality and documentary programming.
Channels are often thematically branded, focusing on such topics as comedy, cooking, crime, movies and travel, and are broadcast in most regions internationally.
Channels are also broadcast in other countries in Asia Pacific.
Sports The Company operates approximately 55 Sports channels outside the U.S. under the ESPN, Fox and Star brands, which are broadcast in approximately 10 languages and 100 countries/territories.
Disney branded television channels include Disney Channel, Disney Junior, Disney XD and Disney International HD.
7 As of September 2021, the estimated number of international subscribers (in millions) for the Company’s significant channels, based on internal management reports, are as follows: Subscribers Disney Disney Channel 162 Disney Junior 154 Disney XD 83 ESPN(1) 64 Fox(1) 184 National Geographic(1) 320 Star General Entertainment(1) 132 Sports(1) 84 (1) Reflects our estimate of each unique subscriber that has access to one or more of these branded channels.
A+E operates a variety of cable channels: • A&E – which offers entertainment programming including original reality and scripted series • HISTORY – which offers original series and event-driven specials • Lifetime and Lifetime Real Women – which offer female-focused programming • Lifetime Movie Network (LMN) – which offers female-focused movies • FYI – which offers contemporary lifestyle programming A+E also has a 50% ownership interest in Viceland, a channel offering lifestyle-oriented documentaries and reality series aimed at millennial audiences.
A+E’s networks are distributed internationally under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs.
A+E programming is also sold to international television broadcasters and SVOD services.
As of September 2021, the number of domestic subscribers (in millions) for A+E channels as estimated by Nielsen Media Research(1) are as follows: Subscribers(2) A&E 75 HISTORY 76 Lifetime 75 LMN 56 FYI 46 (1) As a result of COVID-19, we understand there have been disruptions in Nielsen Media Research’s ability to collect in- home data, which may have had an impact on the estimated subscriber counts at September 2020 and September 2021.
(2) Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts.
8 Direct-to-Consumer Our DTC businesses consist of subscription services that provide video streaming of general entertainment, family and sports programming (services are offered individually or in a bundle) and digital content distribution services.
The subscription services are offered to customers directly or through third-party distributors on mobile and internet connected devices.
Disney+ Services (includes Disney+ Hotstar and Star+) Disney+ is a subscription based DTC video streaming service with Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and National Geographic branded programming, which are all top level selections or “tiles” within the Disney+ interface.
In April 2020, paid subscribers of the Hotstar streaming service in India were converted to Disney+ Hotstar subscribers, and in June 2020, current subscribers of the Disney Deluxe service in Japan were converted to Disney+ subscribers.
Disney+ Hotstar is a subscription based DTC video streaming service with television shows, movies, sports, news and original series in approximately ten languages.
The service incorporates gaming and social features.
Disney+ Hotstar has exclusive streaming rights to Home Box Office, Inc.’s original programming in India and also carries content from Showtime.
In August 2021, STAR+ launched as a standalone DTC streaming service in Latin America.
The majority of Disney+ revenue is derived from subscription fees.
ESPN+ ESPN+ is a subscription based DTC video streaming service offering thousands of live sporting events, on-demand sports content and original programming.
ESPN+ revenue is derived from subscription fees, pay-per-view fees and, to a lesser extent, advertising sales.
Hulu Hulu is a subscription based DTC video streaming service with content that is internally produced, commissioned or licensed.
Hulu’s revenue is primarily derived from subscription fees and advertising sales.
Hulu offers two SVOD services with either limited commercial announcements or with no commercial announcements, and offers a digital OTT MVPD (Live TV) service that can be combined with either of the SVOD services.
Hulu’s Live TV service includes live linear streams of cable networks and the major broadcast networks.
In addition, Hulu offers subscriptions to premium services such as HBOMax, Cinemax, Starz and Showtime, which can be added to the Hulu service.
Certain programming from ABC, Freeform and FX Channels is also available on the Hulu SVOD service one day after airing on these channels.
As of October 2, 2021, the estimated number of paid Hulu subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 44 million.
Digital Content Distribution Services BAMTech LLC (BAMTech) operates the Company’s DTC sports business, which includes ESPN+.
BAMTech also provides streaming technology services to third parties.
Content Sales/Licensing and Other The majority of Content Sales/Licensing revenue is derived from TV/SVOD, theatrical and home entertainment distribution.
These activities are reported with Content Sales/Licensing.
TV/SVOD Distribution Our film and television content is licensed to third-party television networks, television stations and other video service providers for distribution to viewers on television or a variety of internet-connected devices, including through SVOD services (such as Netflix and Amazon).
For films released theatrically, the television distribution market generally comprises multiple pay and free TV windows, which have license periods of various lengths, generally following the home entertainment distribution window.
The Company’s television programming library includes content from approximately 70 years of production history.
In the domestic and most major international markets, we generally distribute and market our films directly.
Home Entertainment Distribution We distribute the Company’s film and episodic television content in home entertainment markets in physical (DVD and Blu-ray disc) and electronic formats globally.
Domestically, films and episodic television content are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and consumers.
Internationally, films and episodic television content are distributed directly and through independent distribution companies.
Physical formats of our films and episodic television content are generally sold to retailers, such as Walmart and Target, and electronic formats are sold through e-tailers, such as Apple and Amazon, and MVPDs, such as Comcast and DirectTV.
Concurrently with physical home entertainment distribution, we license titles to video-on-demand (VOD) services for electronic delivery to consumers for a specified rental period.
Music Distribution The Disney Music Group (DMG) commissions new music for the Company’s motion pictures and television programs and develops, produces, markets and distributes the Company’s music worldwide either directly or through license agreements.
DMG also licenses the songs and recording copyrights to third parties for printed music, records, audio-visual devices, public performances and digital distribution and produces live musical concerts.
Original content is generally produced by the following Company owned television studios: ABC Signature; 20th Television; Disney Branded Television; FX Productions; and National Geographic Studios.
Original content is also commissioned by General Entertainment and produced by various other third-party studios.
Costs to produce original content are generally capitalized and allocated to the distribution platform utilizing the content.
Competition and Seasonality The Company’s Linear Networks and DTC streaming services compete for viewers primarily with other television networks, independent television stations and other media, such as other DTC streaming services and video games.
With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks, independent television stations, MVPDs and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines, radio and billboards.
Our television and radio stations primarily compete for audiences and advertisers in local market areas.
The Company’s Linear Networks compete with other networks for carriage by MVPDs.
Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.
The Content Sales/Licensing businesses compete with all forms of entertainment.
A significant number of companies produce and/or distribute theatrical and television content, distribute products in the home entertainment market, provide pay television and SVOD services, and produce music and live theater.
The Company’s websites and digital products compete with other websites and entertainment products.
We also compete with other media and entertainment companies, independent production companies, SVOD providers and DTC streaming services for the acquisition of sports rights, creative and performing talent, story properties, show concepts, scripted and other programming, advertiser support and exhibition outlets that are essential to the success of our DMED businesses.
Advertising revenues at Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer are subject to seasonal advertising patterns, changes in viewership levels and the demand for sports programming.
Affiliate revenues vary with the subscriber trends of MVPDs.
Federal Regulation Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.
FCC regulations that affect our DMED segment include the following: • Licensing of television and radio stations.
Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC.
Currently: ◦ FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market.
◦ FCC regulations in some cases impose restrictions on our ability to acquire additional radio or television stations in the markets in which we own radio stations.
The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning “indecent” programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children’s programming.
In addition, broadcast stations are generally required to provide an average of three hours per week of programming that has as a “significant purpose” meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger.
• Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations.
With respect to MVPDs operating within a television station’s Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either “must carry” status, pursuant to which MVPDs generally must carry a local television station in the station’s market, or “retransmission consent” status, pursuant to which the MVPDs must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal.
The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations regarding cable and satellite retransmission consent, and some cable and satellite distribution companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on cable and satellite systems.
The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act, other legislation and specific FCC rules and policies.
The products include children’s books, comic books, digital comics and ebooks, learning products and storytelling apps.
Important IP includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines, and merchandise.
Declines in linear viewership and consumption of our content (due to production delays or otherwise) result in decreased advertising revenue.
Consumers may change their behavior and consumption patterns in response to the prolonged suspension of certain of our businesses, such as subscription to pay television packages (which experienced accelerated decline during some periods after the onset of COVID-19) or theater-going to watch movies.
The current decline in economic conditions could also reduce attendance at our parks and resorts, prices that MVPDs pay for our cable programming or subscription levels for our cable programming or direct-to-consumer products.
Changes in technology and in consumer consumption patterns may affect demand for our entertainment products, the revenue we can generate from these products or the cost of producing or distributing products.
The media entertainment and internet businesses in which we participate increasingly depend on our ability to successfully adapt to shifting patterns of content consumption through the adoption and exploitation of new technologies.
New technologies affect the demand for our products, the manner in which our products are distributed to consumers, ways we charge for and receive revenue for our entertainment products and the stability of those revenue streams, the sources and nature of competing content offerings, the time and manner in which consumers acquire and view some of our entertainment products and the options available to advertisers for reaching their desired audiences.
This trend has impacted the business model for certain traditional forms of distribution, as evidenced by the industry-wide decline in ratings for broadcast television, the reduction in demand for home entertainment sales of theatrical content, the development of alternative distribution channels for broadcast and cable programming and declines in subscriber levels for traditional cable channels, including for a number of our networks.
In order to respond to these developments, we regularly consider, and from time to time implement changes to our business models, most recently by developing, investing in and acquiring DTC products and reorganizing our media and entertainment businesses to accelerate our DTC strategies.
The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently create content, which may be distributed, among other ways, through broadcast, cable, internet or cellular technology, theme park attractions, hotels and other resort facilities and travel experiences and consumer products.
Such distribution must meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market and respond to competition from an expanding array of choices facilitated by technological developments in the delivery of content.
Moreover, we must often invest substantial amounts in content production and acquisition, acquisition of sports rights, theme park attractions, cruise ships or hotels and other facilities or customer facing platforms before we know the extent to which these products will earn consumer acceptance.
If our entertainment offerings and products (including our content offerings, which have been impacted by COVID-19) as well as our methods to make our offerings and products available to consumers, do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, our revenue may decline, decline further or fail to grow to the extent we anticipate when making investment decisions and thereby further adversely affect the profitability of one or more of our businesses.
Consumer tastes and preferences impact, among other items, revenue from advertising sales (which are based in part on ratings for the programs in which advertisements air), affiliate fees, subscription fees, theatrical film receipts, the license of rights to other distributors, theme park admissions, hotel room charges and merchandise, food and beverage sales, sales of licensed consumer products or sales of our other consumer products and services.
The convergence of computing, communication and entertainment devices, increased broadband internet speed and penetration, increased availability and speed of mobile data transmission and increasingly sophisticated attempts to obtain unauthorized access to data systems have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our films, television productions and other creative works easier and faster and protection and enforcement of IP rights more challenging.
The unauthorized distribution and access to entertainment content generally continues to be a significant challenge for IP rights holders.
These developments require us to devote substantial resources to protecting our IP against unlicensed use and present the risk of increased losses of revenue as a result of unlicensed distribution of our content and other commercial misuses of our IP.
For example, in October 2020 we announced a reorganization of our media and entertainment businesses to accelerate our DTC strategies.
For example: • Our programming and production operations compete to obtain creative, performing and business talent, sports and other programming, story properties, advertiser support and market share with other studio operators, television networks, SVOD providers and other new sources of broadband delivered content.
• Our television networks and stations and DTC offerings compete for the sale of advertising time with other television and SVOD services, as well as with newspapers, magazines, billboards and radio stations.
In addition, we increasingly face competition for advertising sales from internet and mobile delivered content, which offer advertising delivery technologies that are more targeted than can be achieved through traditional means.
• Our television networks compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers.
• Our content sales/licensing operations compete for customers with all other forms of entertainment.
• Our consumer products business competes with other licensors and creators of IP.
• Our DTC businesses compete for customers with an increasing number of competitors’ DTC offerings, all other forms of media and all other forms of entertainment, as well as for technology, creative, performing and business talent and for content.
Such competition may also reduce, or limit growth in, prices for our products and services, including advertising rates and subscription fees at our media networks, parks and resorts admissions and room rates, prices for consumer products from which we derive license revenues, and fees for our DTC offerings.
We enter into long-term contracts for both the acquisition and the distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for the acquisition of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, and contracts for the distribution of our programming to content distributors.
Moreover, our ability to renew these contracts on favorable terms may be affected by consolidation in the market for program distribution, the entrance of new participants in the market for distribution of content on digital platforms and the impacts of COVID-19.
Our broadcast networks and television stations are highly regulated, and each of our other businesses is subject to a variety of U.S. and overseas regulations.
Some of these regulations include: • U.S. FCC regulation of our television and radio networks, our national programming networks and our owned television stations.
See Item 1 — Business — Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution, Federal Regulation.
For example, in January 2019 India implemented regulation and tariffs impacting certain bundling of channels; U.S. agencies have enhanced trade restrictions and legislation is currently under consideration that would prohibit importation of goods from certain regions; and in many countries/regions around the world (including but not limited to the EU) regulators are requiring us to broadcast on our linear (or display on our DTC streaming services) programming produced in specific countries as well as invest specified amounts of our revenues in local content productions.
Consumers may not be willing to pay for an expanding set of DTC streaming services, potentially exacerbated by an economic downturn.
In addition, licensing revenues fluctuate with the timing and performance of our theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts, many of which have been delayed, canceled or modified.
• Revenues from television networks and stations are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels.
25 • Revenues from content sales/licensing fluctuate due to the timing of content releases across various distribution markets.
• DTC revenues fluctuate based on changes in the number of subscribers and subscriber fee or revenue mix; viewership levels on our digital platforms; and the demand for sports and film and television content.
We are a diversified entertainment company that offers entertainment, travel and consumer products worldwide.
The TFCF acquisition and integration and Hulu put/call may result in additional costs and expenses.
Film and television library properties and television stations owned by the Company are described in Item 1 under the caption Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution.
Direct-to-Consumer The Company has significantly increased its focus on distribution of branded film and episodic content via our own DTC streaming services.
As a result, we are forgoing certain licensing revenue from the sale of this content to third parties in TV/ SVOD markets.
We also expect to forgo revenue as we shut down channels in certain markets as a result of investment in our DTC offerings.
In addition, we are increasing programming and production investments to create exclusive content for our DTC offerings.
The decrease in TV/SVOD distribution revenue also reflected the shift from licensing our content to third parties to distributing it on our DTC streaming services.
Our DMED segment primarily generates revenue across three significant lines of business/distribution platforms: Linear Networks, Direct-to-Consumer and Content Sales/Licensing.
Programming and production costs to support these businesses/ distribution platforms are largely incurred across three content creation groups: Studios, General Entertainment and Sports.
The Direct-to-Consumer business generates revenue from subscription fees, advertising sales and pay-per-view and Premier Access fees.
The Content Sales/Licensing business generates revenue from the sale of film and episodic television content in the TV/ SVOD and home entertainment markets, distribution of films in the theatrical market, licensing of our music rights, sales of tickets to stage play performances and licensing of our IP for use in stage plays.
Advertising revenue is as follows: % Change (in millions) 2021 2020 Better (Worse) Cable $ 3,681 $ 3,648 1 % Broadcasting 3,239 3,278 (1)% Domestic Channels 6,920 6,926 — % International Channels 1,933 1,326 46 % $ 8,853 $ 8,252 7 % The increase in Cable advertising revenue was due to an increase of 10% from higher rates, partially offset by decreases of 6% from fewer impressions and 4% from the comparison to the additional week of operations in the prior year.
The following table presents the number of paid subscribers(1) (in millions) for Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu as of: October 2, October 3, % Change 2021 2020 Better (Worse) Disney+(2) 118.1 73.7 60 % ESPN+ 17.1 10.3 66 % Hulu SVOD Only 39.7 32.5 22 % Live TV + SVOD 4.0 4.1 (2)% Total Hulu(3) 43.8 36.6 20 % The following table presents the average monthly revenue per paid subscriber(4) for the fiscal year ended: % Change 2021 2020 Better (Worse) Disney+ $ 4.08 $ 4.80 (15)% ESPN+ $ 4.57 $ 4.35 5 % Hulu SVOD Only $ 12.86 $ 12.24 5 % Live TV + SVOD $ 81.35 $ 67.24 21 % (1) Reflects subscribers for which we recognized subscription revenue.
Subscribers to the bundled offering in the U.S. are counted as a paid subscriber for each service included in the bundle (Disney+, Hulu and ESPN+).
If a subscriber has either the standalone Disney+ or Star+ service or both the Disney+ and Star+ services, they are counted as one Disney+ paid subscriber.
When we aggregate the total number of paid subscribers across our DTC streaming services, whether acquired individually, through a wholesale arrangement or via the bundle, we refer to them as paid subscriptions.
Revenue includes subscription fees, advertising (excluding revenue earned from selling advertising spots to other Company businesses) and premium and feature add-on revenue but excludes Premier Access and Pay-Per-View revenue.
The average revenue per subscriber is net of discounts on bundled services.
In general, wholesale arrangements have a lower average monthly revenue per paid subscriber than subscribers that we acquire directly or through third party platforms like Apple.
40 The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for Disney+ decreased from $4.80 to $4.08 due to a higher mix of Disney+ Hotstar subscribers in the current year, partially offset by a lower mix of wholesale subscribers in the current year and increases in retail pricing.
The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for the Hulu SVOD Only service increased from $12.24 to $12.86 primarily due to higher per-subscriber advertising revenue, a lower mix of wholesale subscribers and an increase in per- subscriber premium add-on revenue, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to the bundled offering.
The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for the Hulu Live TV + SVOD service increased from $67.24 to $81.35 due to an increase in retail pricing in December 2020, higher per-subscriber advertising revenue and, to a lesser extent, per-subscriber premium and feature add-on revenue, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to the bundled offering.
Higher costs at Hulu were due to an increase in subscriber-based fees for programming the Live service driven by higher average monthly subscribers and rate increases.
Operating Loss from Direct-to-Consumer Operating loss from Direct-to-Consumer decreased $1,234 million, to $1,679 million from $2,913 million due to improved results at Hulu and, to a lesser extent, ESPN+, partially offset by a higher loss at Disney+.
Content Sales/Licensing and Other Operating results for Content Sales/Licensing and Other are as follows: % Change (in millions) 2021 2020 Better (Worse) Revenues TV/SVOD distribution $ 4,206 $ 5,673 (26)% Theatrical distribution 920 2,134 (57)% Home entertainment 1,014 1,802 (44)% Other 1,206 1,368 (12)% Total revenues 7,346 10,977 (33)% Operating expenses (4,536) (6,871) 34 % Selling, general, administrative and other (1,963) (2,628) 25 % Depreciation and amortization (294) (291) (1)% Equity in the income (loss) of investees 14 (34) nm Operating Income $ 567 $ 1,153 (51)% 41 COVID-19 Our Content Sales/Licensing businesses have been impacted by COVID-19 in a number of ways.
Revenues The decrease in TV/SVOD distribution revenue reflected both lower episodic and film content sales.
Lower film content sales reflected less content available due to the impact of COVID-19 and the shift from licensing our content to third parties to distributing it on our DTC streaming services.
Programming costs include content rights licensed from third parties for use on the Company’s Linear Networks and DTC streaming services.
Upon a film’s release and determination of the theatrical performance, the Company’s estimates of revenues from succeeding windows and markets, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used on our DTC streaming services, are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends.
Revenue Recognition Certain of our affiliate contracts contain commitments with respect to the content to be aired on our television networks (e.g.
Prior to the Company’s reorganization in October 2020, the former Direct-to-Consumer & International segment included an International Channels reporting unit, which was comprised of the Company’s international television networks.
Our international television networks primarily derive revenues from affiliate fees charged to MVPDs for the right to deliver our programming under multi-year licensing agreements and the sales of advertising time/space on the networks.
For film productions, Ultimate Revenues include revenues from all sources, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used by the Company’s DTC streaming services, that will be earned within ten years from the date of the initial release for theatrical films.
DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution The DMED segment encompasses the Company’s global film and episodic television content production and distribution activities.
Content is distributed by a single organization across three significant lines of business: Linear Networks, Direct-to- Consumer and Content Sales/Licensing and is generally created by three production/content licensing groups: Studios, General Entertainment and Sports.
cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top (e.g.
YouTube TV) service providers) (MVPDs) and television stations affiliated with the ABC Network for the right to deliver our programming to their customers • Advertising - Sales of advertising time/space on our Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer • Subscription fees - Fees charged to customers/subscribers for our DTC streaming services • TV/SVOD distribution - Licensing fees and other revenue for the right to use our film and television productions and revenue from fees charged to customers to view our sports programming (“pay-per-view”) and streaming access to films that are also playing in theaters (“Premier Access”).
TV/SVOD distribution revenue is primarily reported in Content Sales/Licensing, except for pay-per-view and Premier Access revenue, which is reported in Direct-to- Consumer • Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our film productions to theaters • Home entertainment - Sale of our film and television content to retailers and distributors in home video formats • Other content sales/licensing revenue - Revenues from licensing our music, ticket sales from stage play performances and fees from licensing our intellectual properties (“IP”) for use in stage plays • Other revenue - Fees from sub-licensing of sports programming rights (reported in Linear Networks) and post- production services (reported with Content Sales/Licensing) The significant expenses of DMED are as follows: • Operating expenses consist primarily of programming and production costs, technical support costs, operating labor, distribution costs and costs of sales.
Internal content is generally produced by the following television studios: ABC Signature; 20th Television; Disney Television Animation, FX Productions and various studios for which we commission productions for our branded channels and DTC streaming services ◦ Sports - Primarily acquisition of professional and college sports programming rights and related production costs • Selling, general and administrative costs • Depreciation and amortization Disney Parks, Experiences and Products The operations of DPEP’s significant lines of business are as follows: • Parks & Experiences: ◦ Theme parks and resorts, which include: Walt Disney World Resort in Florida; Disneyland Resort in California; Disneyland Paris; Hong Kong Disneyland Resort (48% ownership interest); Shanghai Disney Resort (43% ownership interest), all of which are consolidated in our results.
Media and Entertainment Reorganization In October 2020, the Company reorganized its media and entertainment operations, which had been previously reported in three segments: Media Networks, Studio Entertainment and Direct-to-Consumer & International.
Affiliate agreements may also include a license to use the network programming for on demand viewing.
• Subscription fees are recognized ratably over the term of the subscription.
• TV/SVOD distribution fixed license fees are recognized as revenue when the content is available for use by the licensee.
The increase in advertising expense for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 was due to higher spend for our DTC streaming services.
theatrical revenues or sales to third-party television programmers).
subscription revenue for a DTC service or affiliate fees for a cable television network).
We generally classify content that is initially intended for use on our DTC streaming services or Linear Networks as group assets.
content that was initially intended for license to a third-party is instead used on an owned DTC service).
For film productions, Ultimate Revenues include revenues from all sources, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used on our DTC streaming services, that will be earned within ten years from the date of the initial release for theatrical films.
Licensed rights to film and television content and other programs for broadcast on our Linear Networks or DTC streaming services are expensed on an accelerated or straight-line basis over their useful life or over the number of times the program is expected to be aired, as appropriate.
Acquired film and television libraries are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years from the date of acquisition.
Acquired film and television libraries include content that was initially released three years prior to its acquisition, except it excludes the prior seasons of episodic television programming still in production at the date of its acquisition.
The most significant of these are Hulu and BAMTech LLC (BAMTech).
Hulu provides DTC streaming services and is owned 67% by the Company and 33% by NBCU.
BAMTech provides streaming technology services to third parties and is owned 85% by the Company and 15% by the MLB.
We are accreting the noncontrolling interests of both BAMTech and Hulu to their guaranteed floor values.
As of October 2, 2021, revenue for unsatisfied performance obligations expected to be recognized in the future is $14 billion, which primarily relates to content to be delivered in the future under existing agreements with television station 85 affiliates and TV/SVOD licensees.
For fiscal 2021, the Company recognized revenues of $2.9 billion, primarily related to content sales, including subscription revenue, and licensing advances included in the deferred revenue balance at October 3, 2020.
In addition, the Company agreed to divest its interest in certain European cable channels that were controlled by A+E Television Networks (A+E) (sold in April 2019 for an amount that was not material).
Our international television networks primarily derive revenues from affiliate fees charged to multi-channel video programming distributors (i.e.
cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top service 115 providers) (MVPDs) for the right to deliver our programming under multi-year licensing agreements and the sales of advertising time/space on the networks.
The Company’s increased focus on DTC distribution in international markets is expected to negatively impact the International Channels business as we shift the primary means of monetizing our film and television content from licensing of linear channels to distributing it on our DTC platforms.
In addition, the industry shift to DTC, including by us and many of our distributors, who are pursuing their own DTC strategies, has changed the competitive dynamics for the International Channels business and resulted in unfavorable renewal terms for certain of our distribution agreements.