Excitement from advertisers for the podcast industry has increased substantially over the last year and we are ahead of our plans for podcast monetization.
Audio ads on the internet are now becoming a bigger part of advertisers media mix overall.
To take advantage of the growing demand, we recently unveiled Spotify Audience Network enhancements for advertisers and added Anchor creators.
This gives advertisers more opportunities to connect with listeners and enable podcast creators to earn from their work in new ways.
This latest announcement is only one example of our focus on increasing the velocity across the business-- in this case -- unlocking more inventory as advertisers and creators alike are realizing the value of podcast ads.
This is especially true when I think about how 1 well we are positioned despite still being very much in the early days of this audio journey.
A good reminder, linear radio still has a 46% share of audio listening in the US alone, despite consumption shifting steadily away from it.1 And this year, >60% of all audio ad spending will go to traditional radio.2 This clearly shows that we have plenty of room to grow both in listening time and in our effective monetization.
As a reminder, any improvements on our platforms will ultimately help increase listeners, listening hours and subsequently, our effective monetization.
We started our journey 3 years ago in podcasting with a catalog of 185,000 podcasts...we were really nowhere compared to the largest players in the industry.
Today, we have 3.2 million podcasts on the platform, a growth rate of over 1500%.
But despite the fact that we’re still a relatively new entrant, previous data indicated we had become the top platform for podcast consumption in 60+ countries.
And now, according to Edison Research and our own internal sources, we recently became the #1 podcast platform US listeners use the most.
Given the US represents the largest podcast market globally, this is quite significant.3 I am confident to say that we are a leader not only in podcasting but in the burgeoning audio space on the internet.
Obviously, our content investments have helped a great deal.
The velocity of shipping matters -- from the recent launch of interactivity enhancements like polls and Q&A to the release of enhanced listening features and new original programming around the world.
And our success is not attributable to just one thing but literally hundreds - if not thousands - of improvements that we are working on in parallel for the benefit of creators, users and advertisers alike.
At Spotify, we want to constantly iterate and improve.
By constantly improving our user experience, users not only will come to Spotify, but we will retain 1Edison Research,Share of Ear Q3 2021(Oct. 2021) 2Insider Intelligence/eMarketer,US Audio AdvertisingForecast 2021(Oct. 2021) 3Edison Research,The Podcast Consumer Tracker, Q22021 2 them.
And if we retain our users, we will bring more creators to the platform to share their content.
And all of these things coupled together -- users, creators and advertisers -- unlock the power of our flywheel.
While we have been relentless in our pursuit of being the world’s largest audio platform, it’s still early days and we are just getting started.
The industry is only just starting to grasp the magnitude of the opportunity as we continue to remain focused on unleashing new experiences that demonstrate the future we envision for audio.
Each improvement we bring and every innovation we offer to listeners and creators drives the flywheel to move faster with greater impact.
I’ll be talking more about the quarter on our podcast, Spotify: For the Record, which will go live on our platform tomorrow.