Q2 Results and Q3 Forecast Revenue growth was driven by an 11% increase in averagepaid streaming memberships and 8% growth in average revenue per membership (ARM)1.
Similarly,retention continues to be strong and better than pre-COVID Q2’19 levels, even as average revenueper membership has grown 8% over this two-year 1Average revenue per membership (ARM) is defined asstreaming revenue divided by the average number of streaming paid memberships divided by the number ofmonths in the period.
1 period, demonstrating how much our members value Netflix and that as we improve our service we can charge a bit more.
Our belief isthat as we steadily improve our service to betterplease our members, this will lead to continued growth inour membership base, ARM, revenue, operating margin and profit dollars.
We view gaming as another new content category for us, similar to our expansioninto original films, animation and unscripted TV.
Product 4 We’re constantly innovating across a broad range of areas to improve the viewing experience and better serve our members.
That’s why this quarter we globallylaunchedPlay Somethingon television, ournew featurethat lets Netflix do the work when you don’tfeel like choosing what to watch.
Recognizing that broadband quality and cost varies around the world,we also improved the Netflix download experience to enable you to start watching a show or film evenif it hasn’t finished downloading.
Once you reconnect, you can complete the partial download andkeep watching — also helping members avoid exceeding their data limits.
Like in our other markets,this plan complements our existing three tiers of service.
In the five markets where we had previouslylaunched a mobile-only plan, we have found that the mobile only plan has been an effective way tointroduce more consumers to Netflix while being roughly revenue neutral as the lower average revenueper membership is offset by incremental acquisition and generally better retention.
Competition We are still very much in the early days of the transitionfrom linear to on-demand consumption of entertainment.
Streaming represents just 27% of USTV screen time, compared with 63% for linear television, according to Nielsen.
As we improve our service, ourgoal is to continue to increase our share of screen time in the US and around the world.
The planned combination of Warner Media Group andDiscovery and Amazon’s pending acquisition of MGM are examples of the ongoing industry consolidationas firms adapt to a world where streaming supplants linear TV.
The industry has consolidatedmaterially over the years (Time Warner/AT&T, Viacom/CBS, Discovery/Scripps, Disney/Fox, Comcast/NBCU/Sky,etc.)
In the race to entertain consumers around the world,we continue to compete for screen time with a broad set of firms like YouTube, Epic Games and TikTok(to name just a few).
Good news: Devices are gettingmore efficient over time and total device usage is fairly constant (with Netflix gaining sharefrom linear).
● As demand for streaming and other internet servicesincreases, the carbon intensity of these services will decrease over time.