I’m pleased with the continuing momentum we are seeing across many aspects of our business this quarter, including our subscriber growth.
2020 was a very strong year for Spotify and as we reported our Q4 results, I discussed the high degree of uncertainty we knew we would continue to face in this unprecedented environment.
I am more confident than ever in our ability to deliver on our ambition to become the world’s number one audio platform.
Our strategy to move from being a streaming service to being an audio platform is really starting to come to life.
Look no further than the clarified messaging we launched yesterday around how we will enable access to paid audio products on top of Spotify.
Really think this positions us to truly be the audio browser of the world.
For those who may have missed it, we detailed several new innovations and enhancements in our pipeline that will benefit both the creator and the user.
1 Q1 2021 Earnings Call April 28, 2021 I also shared more on why I continue to believe that the opportunity in audio is still largely untapped with tremendous growth potential -- far beyond what most of us can imagine today.
The latest numbers from IFPI, just out this quarter, reinforce the strength of the industry, which has seen an increase of 54% in global recorded music revenues since the 2014 low.
And streaming revenues, with a growth rate of more than 600% over this same time period, continue to propel the industry forward.
Industry sources recently forecasted that the streaming market will triple, reaching $79 billion in revenues by 2030 and Spotify continues to be the primary driver that is pushing global music revenues to record highs.
The positive data we continue to see, in terms of the value users see in Spotify, underscores the significant opportunity here and you should expect that we will continue to leverage increases as we evaluate market conditions.
I hope you’ve also checked out our new site Loud & Clear, which is increasing transparency on the economics of music streaming.
There, you’ll see that the number of the most listened to artists in the world is growing and more diverse than ever.
And the more successful artists there are, the more impact we can have on creating an even better consumer experience.
Because the broader audio market is still in its infancy compared to music, the opportunities to innovate there are immense and evolving fast and furiously.
We have long enjoyed a first mover advantage and we will continue to prioritize introducing new capabilities across all facets of audio.
Our recent acquisition of the live audio app, Locker Room, is an example of this commitment to improving our experience.
This isn’t surprising at all given the enormous size of the audio market, which some projections indicate could be valued at $200 billion by 2030.
Competition is nothing new for us -- we saw it with music and always expected others to jump on the audio train when they realized how attractive it is to billions of listeners around the world.
We believe we haveat least 5x to 7x growth left in the businesses we are in today - music, podcasting, andpaid audio - and we intend to win in those businesses.
To help realize our ambitions, over the last couple of months we’ve led our most sweeping geographic expansion to date, turning Spotify ‘on’ in more than 80 new markets across Asia, Africa, Europe, the Caribbean and Latin America.
And in doing so, we are introducing the passions, creativity, sounds and cultures of creators in these markets to a global audience.
We are ramping up quickly, evolving our content and adjusting our product as we learn about what makes the most sense on a hyper local level.
We will continue to aggressively pursue opportunities to expand our content and our offerings and enhance our user experience in spite of the uncertain environment.
In this audio world - where creators and consumers are at the heart of everything we do - we see ourselves as a huge catalyst for growth.
I’ll be talking more about our earnings report on our podcast, Spotify: For the Record, which will go live on our platform tomorrow.