The business delivered subscriber growth and Gross Margin at the top end of our guidance range, a continued improvement in ARPU, and operating income better than plan.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 1 MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS (“MAUs”) Total MAUs grew 24% Y/Y to 356 million in the quarter, finishing within our guidance range but modestly below our internal expectations.
Total MAUs by Region PREMIUM SUBSCRIBERS Our Premium Subscribers grew 21% Y/Y to 158 million in the quarter, hitting the top end of our guidance range.
In Q1, we added nearly 4 million subscribers, which drove healthy double digit Y/Y growth across all regions and was strong relative to a tough promotional comparison from Q1 last year.
The subscriber outperformance was fairly broad based and led by North America, where we saw stronger than expected performance of Trials & Campaigns and faster than anticipated growth in our Standard product.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 2 Our average monthly Premium churn rate for the quarter was down modestly Y/Y and flat Q/Q.
Premium Subscribers by Region FINANCIAL METRICS Revenue Total revenue of €2,147 million grew 16% Y/Y in Q1 (22% Y/Y on a constant currency basis).
On April 26th, we announced price increases for various subscription products in 12 additional markets, including the United States (Family Plan), United Kingdom (Student, Family, and Duo Plans), and Brazil (Full Portfolio).
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 3 Ad-Supported revenue outperformed our forecast with all regions growing double digits Y/Y excluding the impact of FX.
The strength in Ad-Supported revenue was led by our Podcast and Programmatic channels, with the former benefiting from the acquisitions of Megaphone and The Ringer along with our exclusive licensing of the Joe Rogan Experience.
Spotify Ad Studio grew substantially Y/Y, and we continued to expand the self-serve offering to more markets (France, Germany, and Italy) and began beta testing podcast inventory ad buying on Spotify Ad Studio in the US.
In February, we announced the Spotify Audience Network, a first-of-its-kind audio advertising marketplace which connects advertisers to listeners across Spotify Owned & Exclusive (“O&E”) podcasts, podcasts from enterprise publishers via Megaphone, podcasts from emerging creators via Anchor, and ad-supported music.
The Spotify Audience Network bundles multiple shows for advertisers to buy specific audiences using our proprietary SAI technology.
We believe this shift will provide advertisers much greater reach and efficiency while creators gain a much greater monetization opportunity.
While we continue to see strong revenue growth in podcast and non-music revenue, our non-music costs continue to grow at a slightly faster rate which is a modest drag on our Gross Margin.
payment fees, streaming delivery costs) which offset the content spend increase.
As a reminder, all content costs related to podcast investment are included in the Ad-Supported business for the current and historical periods.
This acquisition builds on our work to create “future formats of audio” and will accelerate Spotify’s entry into the live audio space.
We plan to evolve and expand Locker Room into an enhanced live audio experience for a wider range of creators and fans.
We intend to give professional athletes, writers, musicians, songwriters, podcasters, and other global voices opportunities to host real-time discussions, debates, ask me anything (AMA) sessions, and more.
During the quarter, Spotify launched multiple upgrades, including a new Desktop App and Web Player redesign that makes the user experience and navigation easier than ever by combining a modern scalable web player together with a cohesive Spotify design.
We also began testing Podcast Topic Search in the US, which enables listeners to search for podcasts by theme and topic in an effort to make discovering new content easier than ever.
In February, we announced a new partnership between Anchor and WordPress to generate opportunities for content creators to evolve their work and reach new audiences through the power of audio.
With this new tool, bloggers can publish their written content as a podcast with just a few clicks—and podcasters can create a website for their podcast just as easily.
This offers a whole new group of creators—those who have historically focused on the written word—to access an entirely new audience via audio and share their voices on Spotify.
We remain focused on our ubiquity strategy and continue to expand support for Spotify across a variety of platforms and markets.
With the expansion of our footprint into non-music content, we also have expanded support for video podcasts on AppleTV (including AirPlay2), LG, and Comcast.
At the end of Q1, users in 10 additional markets, including Sweden, Australia, and Chile, can now ask Alexa to play podcasts from Spotify.
We also launched a joint partnership with Facebook to create an integrated ecosystem with a miniplayer experience driven by social discovery that allows listeners to enjoy audio from Spotify directly within Facebook, without switching between apps.
Additionally, we announced new ways for podcast creators to monetize their work with the rollout of Spotify’s Paid Subscriptions, the Spotify Open Access Platform, and utilization of the Spotify Audience Network for independent creators.
These initiatives provide creators with different options to monetize their work, which allows them to continue to grow their audiences and create meaningful revenue streams.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 5 Content At the end of Q1, we had 2.6 million podcasts on the platform (up from more than 2.2 million podcasts by the end of Q4).
The percentage of MAUs that engaged with podcast content on our platform was consistent with Q4 levels.
From a consumption standpoint, we saw a strong increase in Q1 podcast consumption hours vs. Q4, with March activity driving an all-time high in terms of podcast share of overall platform consumption hours.
Renegades: Born in the USA, featuring former President Barack Obama and Bruce Springsteen, was the second largest podcast on Spotify in March (on an MAU basis) and has been our most international show to-date, with listenership extending across more than 150 countries.
Additionally, we launched our first slate of 7 Spotify Originals in the Philippines, with topics ranging from gaming to well-being, featuring personalities like Pia Wurtzbach and Donnalyn Bartolome.
On the music front, key Q1 releases included Olivia Rodrigo’s single, drivers license, which set the Spotify record for most streams in a day for a non-holiday song with over 15 million global streams on January 11.
Q1 was the biggest quarter yet for Sponsored Recommendations, with an 11% increase over campaign volume from last quarter and a 10% increase in new customers vs. Q4.
To ensure the tool is accessible to artists at any stage of their careers, it will not require any upfront budget and instead, labels or rights holders agree to be paid a promotional recording royalty rate for streams in personalized listening sessions where we provided this Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 6 service.
Early results from the labels participating have been positive with participating labels seeing a 30% increase in streams for content opted in on average.
This quarter, we announced that all artists now have access to our popular feature, Canvas, through Spotify for Artists.
Artists at every stage of their career have used Canvas, and we now have over 1 million Canvases live on Spotify.
In Q1, we launched Noteable — our new global home for songwriters, producers and publishers which is a central space to access all the resources we’ve made available to the songwriting and publishing community, including Spotify Publishing Analytics, SoundBetter, Songwriter Pages and Song Credits, the Songwriting Hub, and more.
Q2 & 2021 OUTLOOK The following forward-looking statements reflect Spotify’s expectations as of April 28, 2021 and are subject to substantial uncertainty.
Q2 2021 Guidance: ● Total MAUs: 366-373 million ● Total Premium Subscribers: 162-166 million ● Total Revenue: €2.16-€2.36 billion ○ Assumes approximately 200 bps headwind to growth Y/Y due to movements in foreign exchange rates ● Gross Margin: 23.6-25.6% Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 7 ● Operating Profit/Loss: €(134)-€(54) million Full Year 2021 Guidance: We have modestly lowered our Total MAUs range for the full year consistent with the lower than expected Q1 Total MAU growth.
Daniel Ek, our Founder and CEO, and Paul Vogel, our Chief Financial Officer, will be on hand to answer questions submitted through slido.com using the event code #SpotifyEarningsQ121.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: Direct Event Registration Portal: http://www.directeventreg.com/registration/event/8137415 We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.
Management believes that Free Cash Flow is useful to investors Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 8 because it presents a measure that approximates the amount of cash generated that is available to repay debt obligations, to make investments, and for certain other activities that exclude certain infrequently occurring and/or non-cash items.