Q3 Results and Q4 Forecast Revenue growth in Q3 was driven by a 9% and 7% increase in average paid streaming memberships and ARM1, respectively.
For the second consecutive quarter, the APAC region was our largest contributor to membership growth with 2.2m paid net adds (half of total paid net adds) as we are continuing to improve our service in this region.
The UCAN and 1ARM (Average Revenue per Membership) is defined asstreaming revenue divided by the average number of streaming paid memberships divided by the number of months in the period.
These regions have higher penetration of broadband homes although we believe we still have ample runway for growth as we continue to improve our service.
While the goal of our local content executives is always to create locally authentic stories that will resonate in their country (likeThe Chestnut Manwhich we expect to be watched by 2 approximately two thirds of our Danish members during its first four weeks), Netflix is a global, direct-to-consumer service which enables creators to reach broader audiences - and gives our members an even greater choice of stories to enjoy.
It also matches how outside services measure TV viewing and gives proper credit to rewatching.
In addition, we will start to release title metrics more regularly outside of our earnings report so our members and the industry can better measure success in the streaming world.
This plan is a great way for anyone in Kenya with an Android mobile phone to explore Netflix - with access to great content, personalized recommendations, and parental controls.
We hope that this encourages more people to sign up for a paid membership so that they can watch Netflix on any device (mobile, TV, or laptop), access more features (e.g.
We know that members most value the variety and quality of our content.
Marketing & Communications In addition to having best in class content and a product experience that allows members to easily find shows and movies they love, we also want our programming to be talked about and in the cultural zeitgeist.
Competition We compete with a staggeringly large set of activities for consumers’ time and attention like watching linear TV, reading a book, browsing TikTok, or playing Fortnite, to name just a few.
Our approach as always is to improve our service as quickly as we can so that we can earn a greater share of people’s time.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively, including for consumer engagement with different modes of video entertainment; cash spend; ability to recognize the benefits of our investments, including acquisitions; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks, including shutdowns; impact of the coronavirus pandemic; and timing of content releases.