In the short-term, thereis some uncertainty from Covid-19; in the long-term,the rise of streaming to replace linear TV aroundthe world is the clear trend in entertainment.
And since we were still ramping productionlevels late last year, we had lower content spendin 1Average revenue per membership (ARM) is defined asstreaming revenue divided by the average number of streaming paid memberships divided by the number ofmonths in the period.
Asour membership base continues to grow, there will naturally be more volatility in our absolute paidnet additions performance vs. forecast.
We’re also seeing how much members value Netflix with Q1’21churn below Q1‘20 levels, demonstrating that as we improve the service, we can charge a bit more.Our FY21 operating margin target of 20% vs. 18% last year remains unchanged.
We are optimistic aboutthe future and believe we are still in the earlydays of the adoption of internet entertainment, which shouldprovide us with many years of growth ahead.
Assuming this continues, we’ll spendover $17 billion in cash on content this year and we’ll continue to deliver an amazing range of titlesfor our members with more originals this year than last.
There are several facets to our content strategy.First and foremost, we want to deliver a wide varietyof best-in-class stories that our members love and watchin big numbers.
In Q1, we launchedan opt-inDownloads for Youfeature for Android (with iOS coming soon) that automatically downloadsrecommended shows and movies onto a member's mobile device, ensuring that they alwayshave something to watch irrespective of connectivity.
Knowing that bandwidth and storage canbe precious, this feature tries to choose only the most relevant content to download.
4 Competition We compete with many activities for consumers’ entertainmenttime, ranging from watching linear TV, video gaming, and viewing user generated content,just to name a few.
Against this backdrop, the entertainment market is huge, giving us plenty ofroom to grow, if we can continue to improve our service.
More and more new streaming services are launching,reinforcing our vision that linear TV will slowly give way to streaming entertainment.
Our ability to evolve from a DVD-by-mail to an internet entertainment business, from a US-onlyto a global service, and from a licensor of second window content to a producer of original content acrossso many different categories fuels our confidence and optimism for our next decade of challenges,growth and innovation.
When comparing services, subscriber figures alonetell only part of the story (given bundles, discounts and other promotions) so it’s important to also focuson engagement and revenue as key indicators of success; they drive the flywheel of investment ineven more amazing stories for our members and future growth.
The forward-lookingstatements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results andevents to differ, including, without limitation: ourability to attract new members and retain existing members;our ability to compete effectively, including for consumer engagement with different modes of videoentertainment; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumerusage of our service; service disruptions; production risks, including those related to the coronaviruspandemic; and timing of content releases.