Even in a world of uncertainty and increasing competition, we’re optimistic about our long-term growth prospects as streaming supplants linear entertainment around the world.
We're continually improving Netflix so that we can please our members, grow our share of leisure time and lead in this transition.
As a result, our full year operating margin was 21% vs. 18% in 2020, 1ARM(Average Revenue per Membership) is defined asstreaming revenue divided by the average number of streaming paid memberships divided by the number of months in the period.
Our service continues to grow globally, with more than 90% of our paid net adds in 2021 coming from outside the UCAN region.
3 Content Our Q4 content slate epitomizes what we strive for: a wide variety of quality TV series and films.
As a reminder, we publish weekly our top titles based on hours viewed atNetflix Top 10.
Product & Pricing Netflix offers a wide variety of TV shows and films to its members, which we know they value.
Now, members can simply say “Play Something on Netflix” or “Play a movie on Netflix” and playback will start 5 regardless of whether you are browsing Netflix or another service.
We believe these new prices will make Netflix more accessible to a broader swath of the population - strengthening our value perception.
Competition Consumers have always had many choices when it comes to their entertainment time - competition that has only intensified over the last 24 months as entertainment companies all around the world develop their own streaming offering.
While this added competition may be affecting our marginal growth some, we continue to grow in every country and region in which these new streaming alternatives have launched.
This reinforces our view that the greatest opportunity in entertainment is the transition from linear to streaming and that with under 10% of total TV screen time in the US, our biggest market, Netflix has tremendous room for growth if we can continue to improve our service.
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) While our current governance structure has served our shareholders extraordinarily well with a sustained period of substantial growth, we’ve clearly proven our business model: streaming is now an established business, we’re self-funding and expect sustained positive free cash flow, and we’ve substantially scaled our revenues, operating profit and margin.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively, including for consumer engagement with different modes of video entertainment; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks; impact of the coronavirus pandemic; and timing of content releases.