When we entered into the podcast space in 2019 with the intent to help modernize and grow the space for all types of creators, we assumed it would challenge and test our teams in new ways.
There is still work to be done but I am pleased that Spotify is already implementing several first of its kind measures to help combat misinformation and provide greater transparency.
Moving to our results, 2021 was an eventful year for Spotify and the world in general.
Throughout the pandemic, businesses have seen enormous disruption in consumer behavior causing demand curves to shift – and Spotify, of course, has been no exception.
In fact, Q4 was our largest quarter of MAU growth in Spotify’s history.
As a result of this strong performance, we will continue to test different windowing strategies for our exclusive podcast partnerships to get the advantage of that broader audience reach.
Q4 also saw strong performance across podcast metrics.
We’ve amassed a highly engaged audience that is listening more than ever.
Last quarter, we confirmed that Spotify had become 1 the #1 podcast platform US listeners use the most and we continue to see meaningful market share gains.
And this takes patience… Some may still describe us as the leading music subscription service.
And while this surely reflects where we have been, it doesn’t encompass all the advancements we have made in Audio.
For us, the single largest trend to keep track of is the rapid professionalization of creators.
For all the millions of artists and creators that have leveraged Spotify to date, I think we have only scratched the surface of the creative potential in audio.
To become the preferred destination for audio creators, we will accelerate the move from a one size fits all model to a much more dynamic and open platform.
We will provide greater reach, tools and access to diverse revenue streams that can be personalized to meet the needs of each creator.
While this is not limited to Spotify, we are building the platform that will enable the whole ecosystem to work together on a global scale.
And we think that the Spotify ecosystem alone will encompass more than 50 million active creators, a significant increase from the 11 million total we have today.
One recent example includes the Spotify Open Access Platform.
We brought it to market last year to enable creators with existing paid content businesses to activate their subscriber base on Spotify.
This means those creators - whether they’re an independent podcaster, a major 2 news outlet, an audiobook publisher or creator platform - can retain full control over their subscription base, while leveraging the reach of Spotify to grow their audience.
Based on the early success you should expect us to continue to invest in an ever growing number of tools, resources and services for a broad range of creators.
While many will be competing to seize a piece of this opportunity, I believe that we are uniquely well positioned to adapt to this changing environment and deliver for the good of the entire audio creator ecosystem.
Looking into 2022, we expect a continuation of the favorable Gross Margin trend you saw in 2021 for our underlying business as we grow advertising and drive further growth in marketplace contribution; We also expect improvement in our core podcast margins, both on the O&E front, as well as on Megaphone.
Given the encouraging traction we’re seeing, we do plan to invest in incremental content and music initiatives in 2022, with an eye towards our long-term goals of 1 billion users, a 20%+ revenue CAGR and 30-40% gross margins.
For Q1, we’re expecting total MAUs of 418 million and 183 million subscribers.
With respect to the subscriber net adds in Q1, please keep in mind that we expect a different level of seasonality for this metric over the course of 2022 due to anticipated promotional campaign activity and other initiatives.
We are just getting started and will continue to accelerate our work and the pace of innovation as we pursue our view of the creator economy and the role we want to play in opening it up for more and more creators.
I look forward to sharing more details at Investor Day, but first, I’ll be talking more about the quarter on our podcast, Spotify: For the Record, which will go live on our platform tomorrow.