But on the margin, we just -- we didn't grow acquisition quite as fast as we would have liked to see, and on our large subscriber base, a small change in acquisition can have a pretty big flow-through in paid net adds.
And overall, confidence in streaming becomes all of entertainment.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JAN 20, 2022 customers sort of hurdle just higher in terms of the amount and quality of content that you need to deliver to get the same number of net adds?
And we largely are seeing in the price changes we've done most recently and for the earliest indications that we have in the U.S., which is still premature because we actually haven't actually rolled it out to any customers yet, what we've seen over the last couple of years, which is that sort of core theory that we have that if we've done a good job investing, the member subscription fees that they paid us into better stories, more great storytelling, bigger movies, more variety, then when we come back and ask them occasionally for a little bit more to keep that sort of cycle going, then they're generally willing to do that.
And I would say generally, when we look at that sort of core theory and we look at also the competitors, if you look at Disney+ as an example, the other streaming services out there as well, and their ability to grow even as we've been growing as well, I think it's really strong endorsement for the core idea that consumers around the world are willing to pay for great entertainment.
No, it's a good point about your streaming competitors.
And I guess as long as you're viewing share is sort of multiples of any other streaming service in the U.S., should we think about your price relative to cable actually as we sort of think about your runway -- not that you'll get there overnight, but as we think about your runway, is that really sort of the comparison we should be thinking about as opposed to other streaming services?
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JAN 20, 2022 can only see on Netflix, great TV shows, unscripted, now games coming, then that really -- the value equation for any given member or member-to-be in a market is just are they getting good value for what they're paying.
So it's obviously at the core is the content and the programming and seeking to expand that and provide an increased variety and range of programming that appeals and attractive to more people in India while we're thinking about go-to-market and the partnerships that we have and making sure that we're available with those partners at that place where more people in India will find us, and it gets to payments and many, many, many things.
And we also wanted to do it not just like we did with mobile, which is a good lower entry price point, but do it across the range of plans that we had under the theory that some of those features like the ability to watch on TV with a basic plan really unlocks more value in the service and therefore would create more retention, more attractiveness to those plan types for those Indian consumers.
And so in this case, we're -- basically anticipated that while we decrease ARM, average revenue per member, as a result of the price decreases, we're going to make it up in more subscriber adds.
If this approach doesn't give you the desired result, and it sounds like it is so far, but if fast forward 6 months or 12 months from now, it isn't giving you the desired result, would you consider sort of rightsizing your content spend in India or maybe consider an ad-supported model?
So I think we're quite bullish that India isn't fundamentally different in some way that we can't figure out how to tailor our service offering to be attractive to Indian consumers who love entertainment.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JAN 20, 2022 And I'll triple down on that point as well, Ted, because we're -- I mean, we're still learning even now as we have these incredible stories from all these places around the world, how to bring them to that global audience in increasingly effective ways.
And in Netflix, we've been able to kind of put together the great storytelling and great delivery and a great value proposition that has grown the watching of Korean content in the U.S., the numbers I would have never believed 3 years ago.
And how might you actually evolve your content strategy or your pricing strategy to get the next 200 million subscribers?
But also, streaming TV is such a better experience than the old linear TV.
In some ways, we think to ourselves we should be higher than pay TV, a combination of lower pricing and better experience.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 11 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JAN 20, 2022 people really care about premiering and being part of your Netflix subscription is actually taking the value proposition to a new level than it was just a couple of years ago.
Reed, you talked on the Q3 call about sort of, over time, building out the whole experience of games, consumer products, live events, et cetera, around some of your IP.
Greg, I know it's early days, but what has sort of the reception and engagement been from the subscriber base?
And that now allows us to incrementally gradually, over a period of time, get to that sort of the value that you and Reed were talking about where we get to deliver now interactive experiences that are tied to the IP that we're excited about, that are timed with that.
Nidhi Gupta Fidelity Management & Research Company LLC Given that gamers tend to sort of consolidate their time around a smaller number of titles compared to video where we tend to consume a wider variety of content, does it -- would it be more efficient to sort of buy your way into some well-known titles to sort of anchor the product?
And why isn't Netflix participating in big acquisitions given your aspirations in gaming?
And I think to some degree, it's an endorsement of the core thesis that we have around subscription being a great model to connect consumers around the world with games and game experiences.
And we're open to licensing, accessing large game IP that people will recognize.
But you have this global subscription product that's inside sort of hundreds of millions of households around the world.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JAN 20, 2022 extreme end, there's VR content, and now everyone is talking about the metaverse.
But as you look at sort of this broad spectrum of content, how much of it do you want to sort of wrap your subscription around thinking about the long term?
M&A is a tactic to accelerate our strategy, whether it's to accelerate our content capabilities and capacity or just acquisition of IP like Dahl across film, TV and games as you've seen.
I think those fans are positively moving from old linear models and transactional models to more fan-friendly subscription services that are with high-quality programming, delivered well with great value.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 17 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JAN 20, 2022 Copyright © 2022 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.