So in particular, we had this huge pull forward in 2020 in terms of our subscriber additions, nearly 40 million paid net adds in 2020.
So the business remains healthy, and that's because the long-term drivers, this big transition from linear to streaming entertainment, and that remains as healthy as ever.
I mean, we've been competing with Amazon Prime for 13 years, with Hulu for 14 years.
So maybe just talk about how well the subscriber base has sort of absorbed these price increases in the current environment.
So even as we continue to improve the service, we got that in mind and we want to make sure that we're accessible to more and more people on the planet through that process.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're expecting in terms of subscriber growth as the world reopens.
So you're at over 200 million subscribers around the world.
You're 5 years into your original content strategy.
Our second largest is YouTube, which is considerably larger than Netflix in viewing time.
And a companion piece of that is making sure that we increasingly are understanding what our members needs and sort of the members we haven't signed up, consumers' needs generally, in more and more countries.
Whether that's having the right payment method so that they -- consumers don't have to think about what hoops they have to jump through to actually sign up and pay for the service, to how we present the content to them regardless of what country it comes from or what language it's in but present it in a way that allows them just to get into the story of it and realize the plenty and the amazing diversity of storytelling that exists across the planet.
And we talked a little bit in the letter about our business and how it's transitioned over the last 10-plus years from DVD by mail to streaming from U.S.-only to global and from licensed content to original production, but what's helped is just our velocity of decision-making.
So my question is, over the long term, do you think Netflix can be the primary or dominant way that people consume films?
The domestic Pay 1 deal that is also part of that, I think, complements and adds to -- but only for our domestic subscribers over -- for 5 years.
So how do we bring in price points that are low enough for more and more of the world's population to be able to access the service to enjoy the kind of amazing stories that that we are creating.
I'm curious what's sort of giving you the confidence to invest this aggressively in Asia, particularly in a market like India, which is still below share of global GDP and willingness to pay for premium content theme is pretty... Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO, Chief Content Officer & Director Well, remember, I think it's the -- the product market fit is what we're always looking for.
Now we're programming the service in a way that consumers value it and love it.
But outside of that, we've been really producing a lot of great new content that's currently shut down.
But then also something that we've seen that is quite successful for us in pretty much all the markets we serve around the world is leveraging go-to-market partners who have existing relationships with consumers as a way to expose them to the Netflix service and then have them make it easy to pay.
And of course, the ultimate and easy to pay is it just included the sort of bundled offerings that we've been doing more and more of, and Jio is a great example of a partner we've been working with there to really bring the service to a new demographic at a very, very low price associated with low-cost mobile plans that they're offering as well as home-based IPTV plans.
First of all, we recognize that our members are in different positions, again, and they have different needs from us as an entertainment service.
But we also want to ensure that while we're doing that, that we're good at making sure that the people who are using a Netflix account, who are accessing it are the ones that are authorized to do so.
And I think you're familiar with and so much of how we think about continuously improving the service, which is we iteratively work.
Nidhi Gupta Fidelity Management & Research Company LLC Are there any particular markets where the subscriber or the user to subscriber ratio is particularly high?
I remember you telling me recently just the importance of keeping the main thing the main thing, which has obviously led to a lot of success for Netflix.
But when I look forward to the next 10 years, which I realize is a very long time, but if you continue to be successful adding, call it, 30 million subscribers a year, you'll be at well over 500 million subscribers in 10 years, which feels like a high level of penetration.
So outside of China, I think pay television peaked about 800 million households.
I bet we end up with one, hopefully, gigantic, hopefully, very defensible profit pool and then continue to improve the service for our members by doing that by expanding in category.
There'll be a bunch of supporting pools like consumer products that can be both profitable and can support the title brands.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2021 EARNINGS CALL | APR 20, 2021 Copyright © 2021 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.