We’ve successfully launched our streaming offerings, Disney+ and Star, in a number of markets internationally.
Our steady cadence of new high-quality, branded content, along with our robust collection of library titles allows us to continually attract new subscribers and retain existing ones.
And we have outlined three approaches for distributing our films: releases in theaters with a simultaneous offering via Disney+ Premier Access, releases straight to Disney+, and traditional exclusive theatrical releases.
We are uniquely positioned with the most compelling brands and franchises in entertainment, and we continue to deliver the high-quality, one-of-a-kind content that consumers want.
That’s clearly reflected in the success of Disney+, which amassed nearly 104 million paid subscribers as of the end of the second fiscal quarter.
We are on track to achieve our guidance of 230 to 260 million subscribers by the end of fiscal 2024.
Looking at our entire portfolio of streaming services, we expect that as full production levels resume and we get to a more normalized cycle, the increased output will help fuel additional sub growth across Disney+, ESPN+, Hulu and Hotstar.
Hulu and ESPN+ had 41.6 million and 13.8 million paid subscribers, respectively, at the end of the quarter.
In March, we launched ESPN+ on Hulu and we are very pleased with its early progress.
Viewers who subscribe to both Hulu and ESPN+ are able to watch and engage with the great content that’s available on ESPN+ without leaving the Hulu environment.
While our overall strategy is still very supportive of our linear business, given the important economic value it drives for the company, we are also building out our ESPN+ direct-to-consumer offering.
Some are weighted more towards linear with a significant digital component, such as the NFL and SEC deals, others reflecting an emphasis on direct-to-consumer.
When you combine the unparalleled assets of The Walt Disney Company - ESPN, ESPN+, ABC and Hulu - plus our highly engaging digital and social content, it’s clear that Disney is the absolute leader when it comes to serving our sports fans in the most effective way possible.
I’ll walk through our results by segment, starting with Media and Entertainment Distribution.
At Domestic Channels, both Cable and Broadcasting operating income increased versus the prior year.
Higher results at Cable were driven by lower programming and production costs and higher affiliate revenue, partially offset by lower advertising revenue.
This was driven by a benefit of 8 points of growth from higher rates, offset by a 4-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers.
Lower programming and production costs in the second quarter were driven by a higher percentage of content cost being allocated to our DTC business rather than our Networks business, as we continue the international expansion of Disney+ and Star, in addition to channel closures over the past year.
Hulu ended the second quarter with 41.6 million paid subscribers, up from 39.4 million in Q1, inclusive of the Hulu Live digital MVPD service.
Paid subscribers to Hulu Live declined modestly to 3.8 million from 4.0 million at the end of Q1, which we attribute primarily to the $10 price increase we took in December, in addition to a modest impact from seasonality.
ESPN+ had 13.8 million paid subscribers as of the end of the quarter.
As Bob mentioned earlier, we had almost 104 million Disney+ paid subscribers at the end of the second quarter.
Page 11 Q2 FY21 Earnings Conference Call May 13, 2021 Between Q1 and Q2, Disney+ Hotstar was the strongest contributor to net subscriber additions, making up approximately a third of the total Disney+ subscriber base as of the end of the second quarter.
At our Direct-to-Consumer business, we now plan to launch Star+ - our standalone general entertainment and sports streaming service for Latin America - on August 31st.
Alexia Quadrani – JP Morgan Chase & Co. One on streaming as well and then one on the Parks.
How should we think about really Disney+ subscriber growth going forward?
But I'm wondering if you look at what you see internally as major drivers for the step-up - or step-ups until you get to your long-term target - is it really around certain content drops?
Look, the biggest drivers for Direct-to-Consumer were coming out of Hulu and Disney+.
1 Region 2 Paid Subscribers Page 20 Q2 FY21 Earnings Conference Call May 13, 2021 Disney+, we saw some lower content costs.
And at Hulu, there was also some lower content costs, but for different reasons.
But the most important driver for Hulu is the addressable advertising strength.
There's real demand for that addressable advertising.
I'm going to talk about - Jessica, I'm going to talk about Direct-to-Consumer and the slower net adds expected for the second half of the year.
And I'm curious, under what circumstances will you consider doing what some peers are doing, simulcasting your football games, Monday Night Football games from either ESPN or ABC onto ESPN+?
In terms of the ability to simulcast with ESPN+ and ESPN and ABC, that's actually been envisioned in the deals, and we've gotten a lot of flexibility, not only in terms of our ability to take our programming to our DTC platforms and things like Hulu and ABC.
I mean, firstly, I guess, Bob, when you look at the vision for sports streaming, you now have digital rights across all the major sports that you carry on ESPN.
And you've made some hard choices on the other businesses when it comes to licensing and studios and so on in order to pivot - make a hard pivot to streaming.
But that choice with respect to sports streaming, feels like it's still a couple of years off in terms of pivoting ESPN as a business completely towards streaming.
But if there's any indication of where we're going with this, I think our recent deals and the flexibility that we negotiated in to go to these direct-to-consumer platforms and specifically ESPN+ or whatever follows ESPN+ in terms of the direct-to-consumer platform, I think that's 100% indicative of our bullishness of not only our capability of doing that, but the viability of doing that.