And lastly, using the power of our far-reaching platforms and new technologies to give consumers the best entertainment experience possible.
I’ll briefly talk about how we are executing against these priorities in three key areas: Direct-to- Consumer, sports, and Parks, Experiences and Products.
On the direct-to-consumer side, we are extremely pleased with the success of our portfolio of streaming services.
Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu continue to perform incredibly well, with 118.1 million, 17.1 million and 43.8 million subscribers, respectively….
To put this growth in perspective - in the past fiscal year alone, we have grown the total number of subscriptions across our DTC portfolio by 48%, and Disney+ subs in particular by 60%.
This represents the beginning of the surge of new content shared last December at our Investor Conference 2.0.
We recognize that the single most effective way to grow our streaming platforms worldwide is with great content.
Turning to sports, we continue to build out ESPN+ with exclusive sports content that makes our DTC offering the perfect complement to the ESPN linear experience.
And with every new sports rights deal, we have considered both linear and DTC - in fact, all seven of the major deals we made in the last year and a half included a streaming component.
Another example is our seven-year rights deal with the NHL - 75 of the league’s live, national games are and will be available exclusively on ESPN+ and Hulu, and ESPN+ is the sole home for more than 1,000 out-of-market NHL games.
And we are particularly pleased with the NHL’s direct-to-consumer performance on ESPN+ and Hulu.
Suffice to say, we continue to see enormous opportunity in sports, and all of this - the rights deals, our innovative programming, and the flexibility achieved through our DTC business, which saw ESPN+ subscribers increase by 66% over the past fiscal year alone… all of this is a testament to the clear ambition we have in sports.
Our company is truly unique in that we have a significant presence in the physical world through our parks and resorts, as well as media and entertainment assets in the digital world.
we were the first to distribute downloaded content on the new Apple iPod back in 2005….
And we look forward to creating unparalleled opportunities for consumers to experience everything Disney has to offer across our products and platforms - wherever the consumer may be.
At Cable, the year-over-year decrease in operating income was primarily driven by three factors: one, lower affiliate revenue, primarily driven by the prior year benefit of the 53rd week; two, an increase in marketing costs from more titles premiering in the current quarter, which we also discussed last quarter; and finally, to a lesser extent, lower advertising revenue.
This was driven by a benefit of 6 points of growth from higher rates, offset by a 7-point decline due to the 53rd week adjustment and a 3-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers.
Higher subscription revenue reflects subscriber growth and increases in retail pricing, and the increases in costs reflect the ongoing expansion of Disney+.
Subscribers across our domestic and core international markets, excluding Disney+ Hotstar, grew by almost 4 million from Q3 to Q4.
At ESPN+, where we ended the fourth quarter with over 17 million subscribers vs. nearly 15 million in Q3, the decrease in operating results year-over-year was driven by higher marketing and sports programming costs, partially offset by subscription revenue growth.
Hulu ended the fourth quarter with 43.8 million paid subscribers inclusive of the Hulu Live digital MVPD service.
Hulu Live subscribers increased to 4 million, from 3.7 million at the end of the third quarter.
Lower TV/SVOD results were due to lower third party content licensing of film content, driven by the ongoing impact of COVID as well as our strategic shift towards distribution on our DTC services, partially offset by higher income from sales of episodic content due to lower write-offs versus the prior year.
Obviously, we're only in year 2 of the Disney+ launch and the hunger for content for the service is extraordinary.
And yet, we identified the need for the content way back exactly a year ago, and have prepared a very strong cadence of content, which will now hit the pipeline in the second half of this year.
As you know, we have preached flexibility in terms of making decisions on distribution as we recover from the pandemic and in the mix of changing consumer behaviors… and, the extent to which, we have a number of titles released going to theatrical will eventually go to Disney+.
We have all of our Disney+ content over there from all the different labels that we have, Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and so on.
As you can probably suspect in a world of direct to consumer, we have a lot of information, a lot of data.
And we always say that library titles tend to increase engagement and minimize churn, but new titles, new content, whether they're movies or series, actually add new subs.
We believe that there's an opportunity for us to sort of assert ourselves in the direct-to-consumer way, the same way we did in the Linear Networks with Disney Channel.
And I think we're going to see a resurgence of sort of Disney in that area in terms of content that's really going to become the cultural zeitgeist and then drive our subs amongst that particular cohort of potential sub ads for Disney+.
And that's why we fired up the engines, the production engines of our Fox teams that we've gotten in acquisitions, Fox Searchlight and just our general, Disney general entertainment team, making content both for Hulu and for Disney+, as well as our services internationally.
So over the past year or so, we've talked about the increase in the price of content.
You see the content that, because of just the competition for talent, for everything that's involved in productions, content costs have gone up.
And within advertising, if you could talk a little bit more about Hulu advertising, what's going on there with your ad-light service versus pure premium subscription.
On Hulu specifically, we're really pleased with the advertising demand we've seen for Hulu.
Hulu, we believe, also has some real strategic advantages in this space.
We've got a great slate of premium content, and we've developed the ability to use our data to offer that targeting advertising that advertisers really desire.
So we'll continue to make investments in technologies that are going to allow us to continue to exploit this advertising that we see on Hulu.
So we expect advertising to continue to be an important driver of Hulu revenues going forward.