Viewing per member, maybe slightly down compared to the very COVID-distorted 2020 Q3, but up healthy compared to 2019 comparable period.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2021 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 19, 2021 which -- it would be helpful to understand actually why it fell into that consistent range over the last few years.
Streaming is developing at a great pace, all kinds of devices and competitors helping that market growing.
Competition, obviously, that's a factor, but the amount of scale of content and entertainment that we have, and the way we're set up -- it's like Squid Game is incredible.
I mean, at the end of the day, it's about, as Reed talked about, we're just trying to continually improve our service around content and the ability to discover that content with our choosing and driving conversation every day and getting better every day.
And if we can do that and be that first choice in entertainment, then ultimately, that's what's driving that secular growth from linear to streaming entertainment.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2021 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 19, 2021 and everywhere, everywhere we operate.
So how something can go viral is really hard to predict, but it's super powerful when it happens, and to show us to deliver the goods to be able to deliver that much viewing and you have people talk about it in such short hand that you can spoof it on Saturday Night Live because it's so in the zeitgeist.
I mean, my guess would be you're reaching close to 1 billion TV fans globally with your content, and that can obviously generate a lot of virality for a great piece of content, as you said, the content has to deliver.
Look, the best content has always been competitive.
The one thing we can promise international creators is the possibility of having a Squid Game experience, where the star of your show in Korea can go from 400,000 social media followers to 15 million in 5 days.
I think it's an amazing proof point of the content, but it's also an amazing proof point of the delivery system that helps people find content.
The same things that's made our service very powerful for recommending movies and TV shows, what Ted mentioned, sort of connecting great content creators into this audience, that's the capability that we need to build on the game side as well now.
What kinds of new game experiences or new distribution models can you enable, particularly early on not having to worry about direct monetization?
And I think it's important to note that, first of all, we're going to learn our way through that just as we have in the other content categories that we've served.
And then, of course, you've got your off-Netflix aspects, the experiences that we're building out, consumer products, all of that coming together.
Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO, Chief Content Officer & Director I believe that the consumer products is really a great way to enhance the relationship with content and fans.
I don't think even a huge success against the revenue and margins of the core business that it will look like it will make much difference in terms -- the core for us is that it gets very, very big so that it enhances the talkability and zeitgeist moments around our content and gives fans a way to express that fandom in a way that amplifies it and attracts more fans.
Ultimately, what we -- how we control that is -- our best control, it is to make our service better and better every day through this amazing variety and Copyright © 2021 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2021 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 19, 2021 quality of content and better discovery of that content and connecting with our fans around the world.
And when we talk even in the letter about the secular growth here is this transition from linear to streaming entertainment even in our most kind of mature markets like the U.S., which we show in the letter, we're at between 6% of TV share in terms of screen time.
So some of those are just earlier and higher growth, but we're growing across all those content categories, and we don't see a ceiling at least for the foreseeable future.
So we got to be able to have the revenue growth and margins, but it would be incredibly satisfying if we could build up to much bigger content budgets that we have, usefully deploy it for our members' love and that's all those categories.
And we can see the opportunity there, whether it's seeing content like Squid Game or Lupin or La Casa de Papel, and we really want to just do that more and more and more.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2021 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 19, 2021 Copyright © 2021 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.