And we will use the power of our far-reaching platforms and emerging technologies to better anticipate what our consumers want and deliver them a more seamless and more personalized entertainment experience.
On the direct-to-consumer side, we are extremely pleased with the continuing success of our portfolio of streaming services.
Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu have performed incredibly well, with 116 million, 14.9 million and 42.8 million subscribers, respectively - for a total of nearly 174 million subscriptions.
As we’ve said, our direct-to-consumer business is the Company’s top priority.
And among our unique advantages in promoting and growing our DTC service are our powerhouse brands and the vast array of direct consumer touch points we have across our businesses - from our media networks to our theme parks to our consumer products.
This synergy enables us to raise consumer awareness and further increase engagement with our streaming services.
Our robust pipeline of content continues to fuel growth, and we have an incredible line-up of new programming for Disney+.
With respect to our current approach to distributing our feature-length films, last year, in light of the prolonged and unpredictable nature of the pandemic, we needed to find alternative ways to bring our movies to consumers while theaters were closed.
Our goal is always to provide guests and consumers with unparalleled entertainment, whether they’re visiting one of our parks or watching one of our films in a theater or on our streaming platforms.
This was driven by a benefit of 8 points of growth from higher rates, offset by a 3-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers.
Turning to Direct-to-Consumer, Q3 operating income improved by over $300 million versus the prior year driven by Hulu, partially offset by a higher loss at Disney+.
Hulu ended the third quarter with 42.8 million paid subscribers, up from 41.6 million in Q2, inclusive of the Hulu Live digital MVPD Page 10 Q3 FY21 Earnings Conference Call August 12, 2021 service.
Paid subscribers to Hulu Live decreased slightly to 3.7 million, from 3.8 million at the end of Q2.
These higher costs were partially offset by increased subscription revenue, reflecting subscriber growth and increases in retail pricing, as well as Premier Access revenue for Cruella.
Disney+ Hotstar accounted for the majority of our net subscriber additions between Q2 and Q3, making up a little less than 40% of our total Disney+ subscriber base as of the end of the third quarter.
However, subscriber growth was also solid at our core Disney+ markets, excluding Disney+ Hotstar, with total quarter-over-quarter net adds in those markets consistent with net adds from Q2.
ESPN+ ended Q3 with 14.9 million paid subscribers, reflecting over one million net subscriber additions versus the second quarter.
So I'm wondering why that improvement and why not revisit maybe some of the guidance that was shared earlier on DTC profitability, just given the continual improvement in what looks like Hulu profitability.
One is, it has continued to have subscriber growth, and also very strong advertising revenue.
And at the same time, they are -- just like all of our other streaming services – they're ramping up their productions, programming, and also marketing expense to promote those new shows.
So, in addition to all the technology things that we're implementing - as Bob mentioned, reservation systems, the dining apps - we're just seeing the consumer behavior be very favorable.
And then we'll go to Christine, who will talk about Hulu ad growth, IPL, and LATAM.
And, as I mentioned, the ability for us to use the dynamic ad-insertion in Hulu Live is also a benefit.
Just to put some context around it, because I think it's a precursor of what the upfront showed, is that the – we came out of a very strong upfront, but we had about 40% of the total upfront dollars into streaming and digital.
And a lot of that is not only across Hulu, but also across our other entertainment and sports platforms.
When you think about Disney+ Hotstar, IPL is certainly a very, very important component of the offerings, but it's only one, because we also have a very broad portfolio of general entertainment, as well as other sports.
It has a lot of original content – library content in it from all of the Disney+ brands and IP.
Bob, you may want to start on the streaming question, and I don't know if you want to make some comments on, kind of, parks' cost ramp.
We've got world-class content, from the world's best storytellers, plus our international launches, plus the power of the Disney bundle.
And then on film, the industry has undergone such massive change over the last two years towards streaming.
And the most mature SVOD platform out there is probably at 50% penetration, with ARPUs that are, sort of, 1/5 of pay TV ARPUs, and not really growing.
And are there things that the industry needs to do, as an example, if you think it's tethered to piracy, or something like that, that could sort of give you another -- or the industry, including you – another leg of growth in terms of net adds that people aren't thinking about?
They are getting an incredible amount of content for a really good price.
I will say that we're extremely pleased in every market2 that we've launched our direct-to-consumer services.
Is it global or U.S. or just -- or any new content that could be launched, and anything you could tell us on that would be great.