The quarter was led by improving ARPU, decreased churn, a return to per user consumption growth, and significant advertising strength.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 1 MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS (“MAUs”) Total MAUs grew 22% Y/Y to 365 million in the quarter, finishing below our guidance range and forecast.
Although we continue to face near-term uncertainty with respect to COVID-19, we remain confident in the underlying health of our user funnel, and our existing user retention activity remains consistent with historical trends.
Total MAUs by Region Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 2 PREMIUM SUBSCRIBERS Our Premium Subscribers grew 20% Y/Y to 165 million in the quarter, towards the upper end of our guidance range and modestly ahead of forecast.
We added 7 million subscribers in Q2, which drove healthy double digit Y/Y growth across all regions.
Additionally, we added or expanded several major promotional partnerships in the quarter, including a renewal and expansion of our Samsung promotion (offering 3 month trials in 73 markets to all new and existing mobile/speaker/wearable and appliance devices), a renewal and expansion of our Microsoft Gamepass promotion (offering 3 or 4 month trials in 15 markets), a new Epic/Fortnite promotion (3 month trial in 25 markets), a renewal of our Paypal promotion (3 month trial in 10 markets), and a renewal and expansion of our Vivo promotion (3 month trial in Brazil).
Premium Subscribers by Region Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 3 FINANCIAL METRICS Revenue Revenue of €2,331 million grew 23% Y/Y in Q2 (or 28% Y/Y on a constant currency basis) and was toward the top end of our guidance range due to significant advertising strength and subscriber outperformance.
Ad-Supported Revenue outperformed our forecast, driven by strong underlying demand (benefiting sellout and pricing) and aided by favorable comps vs. last year's COVID-19 lows.
The strength in Ad-Supported Revenue was led by our Direct and Podcast sales channels, with the latter benefiting from a triple-digit Y/Y gain at existing Spotify studios (The Ringer, Parcast, Spotify Studios, and Gimlet) along with contributions from the Megaphone acquisition, the exclusive licensing of the Joe Rogan Experience, and Higher Ground.
We are very pleased with the initial performance of the Spotify Audience Network which launched in the US in April.
The rollout allowed us to increase our monetizable podcast inventory in the US by nearly 3x.
Additionally, for opted-in podcast publishers we’ve seen a double digit increase in fill rates, a meaningful increase in unique advertisers, and a double digit lift in CPMs.
On July 1, we expanded the Spotify Audience Network to include Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom.
The Gross Margin improvement excluding these releases was driven by a favorable revenue mix shift towards podcasts, marketplace activity, and Other Cost of Revenue efficiencies (e.g.
payment fees, streaming delivery costs), which were partially offset by higher non-music and other content costs and publishing rate increases.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 4 Premium Gross Margin was 30.8% in Q2, up 261 bps Y/Y and Ad-Supported Gross Margin was 11.3% in Q2, up 2,321 bps Y/Y.
As a reminder, all content costs related to podcast investment are included in the Ad-Supported business for the current and historical periods.
On June 16, we soft-launched Spotify Greenroom, a redesigned version of Betty Lab’s Locker Room app, as part of our entry into the live audio space.
This mobile app allows users to join or host live audio rooms, and optionally turn those conversations into podcasts.
Additionally, we announced a Creator Fund bringing new exciting content to users and helping those creators get rewarded for the content they create on the platform.
We expect to move to a full commercial launch of Spotify Greenroom later this year, with an initial focus on sports, pop culture, music, and entertainment.
During the quarter, we began rolling out our paid subscription platform for podcasters in the US.
Additionally, as part of our Spotify Open Access platform strategy, we announced several new partnerships aimed at opening our platform to third-party paywalled content with the goal of becoming the world’s leading audio browser.
On May 20, we partnered with Storytel, one of the world’s leading audiobook streaming services, to give Storytel subscribers the ability to enjoy their library of audiobooks on Spotify.
On July 27, we announced more than 10 new Spotify Open Access partners -- with more to come -- all of which will be able to activate their subscriber base on Spotify while retaining full control over their content.
We continue to improve our search capability expanding our functionality to include filters and voice search making it quicker and more efficient for users to find content.
Additionally, we Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 5 rolled out a new version of Your Library to all Spotify mobile users that creates a streamlined way for listeners to explore their collection and find saved music and podcasts more easily.
We introduced a new miniplayer experience that allows listeners to share, explore, and discover audio from Spotify directly within Facebook, without switching between apps.
On the Apple Watch, we rolled out the capability for users to download playlists, albums, and podcasts to their watch.
Finally, we expanded our video podcast footprint to Xbox gaming consoles and went live with the Spotify X1 integration to Rogers Communications customers in Canada.
Content At the end of Q2, we had 2.9 million podcasts on the platform (up from 2.6 million at the end of Q1).
The percentage of MAUs that engaged with podcast content on our platform improved modestly relative to Q1.
Among MAUs that engaged with podcasts in Q2, consumption trends were strong (up 95% Y/Y in aggregate and more than 30% Y/Y on a per user basis) while week- over-week and month-over-month retention rates reached all-time highs.
During the quarter, podcast share of overall consumption hours on our platform also reached an all-time high.
During the quarter, we announced exclusive licensing deals with Call Her Daddy and Armchair Expert, both of which are now exclusively on Spotify.
Internationally, we released 100 new Originals & Exclusives (“O&E”) podcasts across markets including 5 adaptations of existing formats.
The launches included bespoke content from 28 partners across the region, such as notable new organizations like Infobae and La Nación (Argentina), W Radio (Mexico), and 123 Segundos (Brazil), a Spotify original.
One of the top podcasts in India, The Ranveer Show, which covers topics like health, spirituality, and lifestyle, also came exclusively to Spotify in June.
In Q2, Olivia Rodrigo’s album, SOUR, set the record for biggest streaming debut for any album on Spotify this year with over 63 million global first day streams.
Spotify also launched a new Fresh Finds marketing program to celebrate Indie artists in the US as well as expanding the playlist via localized editions in 13 territories around the world.
In addition, of artists whose first editorial playlist is Fresh Finds, over 44% go on to be playlisted in another editorial property on Spotify.
Thus far, artists with tracks in Discovery Mode have found over 40% more listeners on average compared to pre-Discovery Mode.
We also rolled out new functionality for artist teams using the self-serve platform to target specific audience segments (casual listeners, lapsed listeners, and recently interested listeners) with their campaigns, a functionality previously only available to customers purchasing through our sales team.
Q3 2021 Guidance: ● Total MAUs: 377-382 million ● Total Premium Subscribers: 170-174 million ● Total Revenue: €2.31-€2.51 billion ○ Assumes approximately 60 bps tailwind to growth Y/Y due to movements in foreign exchange rates Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 7 ● Gross Margin: 24.4-26.4% ● Operating Profit/Loss: €(80)-€0 million Q4 2021 Guidance: ● Total MAUs: 400-407 million ● Total Premium Subscribers: 177-181 million ● Total Revenue: €2.48-€2.68 billion ○ Assumes approximately 175 bps tailwind to growth Y/Y due to movements in foreign exchange rates ● Gross Margin: 24.1-26.1% ● Operating Profit/Loss: €(152)-€(72) million EARNINGS QUESTION & ANSWER SESSION We will host a live question and answer session starting at 8 a.m.
Daniel Ek, our Founder and CEO, and Paul Vogel, our Chief Financial Officer, will be on hand to answer questions submitted through slido.com using the event code #SpotifyEarningsQ221.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: Direct Event Registration Portal: http://www.directeventreg.com/registration/event/6039475 We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.