But at the same time we have charted a course for an even more deliberate and aggressive DTC push for Disney+, ESPN+, Hulu and Star.
We’ve been especially pleased with the success of our direct-to-consumer business.
And our recent strategic reorganization has enabled us to accelerate the Company’s pivot towards a DTC-first business model and further grow our streaming services.
ESPN+ and Hulu have also performed well, with 12.1 million and 39.4 million subscriptions, respectively.
As you saw during our Investor Day presentation, we’ve got an amazing, robust pipeline of original content in development and production for our full portfolio of streaming services.
The wealth of IP from our unrivaled collection of brands and franchises provides us with an incredible breadth and depth of storylines and characters to mine for Disney+ and our other streaming services.
As we’ve said, our goal is to increasingly put the consumer in charge, and let them decide when and how they want to enjoy our one-of-a-kind entertainment offerings.
Today’s discussion of our financial results will be organized by two segments: Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution, or DMED; and Disney Parks, Experiences and Products, or DPEP.
This was driven by a benefit of 8 points of growth from higher rates, offset by a 5-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers.
Higher programming costs and higher advertising revenue reflected a shift in the timing of Indian Premier League cricket matches due to COVID, and the decrease in affiliate revenue was primarily due to channel closures.
Moving on to Direct-to-Consumer… improved results at all three of our streaming services drove an improvement in Direct-to-Consumer operating results of nearly $650 million versus the prior year.
Hulu ended the first quarter with 39.4 million paid subscribers, including 4 million Hulu Live digital MVPD subscribers.
With 94.9 million paid subscribers at the end of Q1, Disney+’s global net additions were 21.2 million versus Q4.
Disney+ Hotstar subscriber additions continued their strong growth trend, with Disney+ Hotstar subscribers making up approximately 30% of our global subscriber base.
We also saw strong additions to our subscriber base from our November launch in Latin America.
ESPN+ ended the quarter with 12.1 million paid subscribers.
Lower TV/SVOD distribution results were the result of a shift from licensing to third parties to exhibiting our content on our DTC services.
We thought that was a really nice thing to do for our consumer base and our subscriber base given the holiday - and given the fact that we have talked consistently about remaining flexible in terms of how we're going to go ahead and put our titles out into the marketplace.
It's going to be dependent, though, on what our slate of titles are, and whether we think that we need to put something on the service for those particular guests or whether this is something that we could use as another data point in our exploration of Premier Access day- and-date with theatrical.
So it's really about flexibility, and we're going to steer our decision-making over time given what information that we get from our guests and our subscriber base on what they prefer.
It also has a lot of other local content that consumers like to view.
But we've also made it economical for a consumer to sign up for a 1-year subscription versus going month-to-month.
On Disney+, can you please discuss, maybe in general, how you are thinking about local partnerships for content versus more traditional Disney content?
In terms of the partnerships, in Indonesia, we're partnering with Telkomsel and we have a lot of data plan and promotional bundling that we're doing with them - which not only is sort of keeping the rates at a place that's respectable in the marketplace, given the overall economy there and what the market will bear, but also is giving us exposure possibly from a marketing standpoint and promotional standpoint to particular audience segments that we may not otherwise be able to get.
And as our product offering matures and we put more content into the service and our subscriber base becomes more tenured, we expect to see our churn rates continue to decline.
It's all green lights in terms of our launch, not only in terms of preparation of the service itself and being able to handle it from a delivery standpoint, but also from a content curation standpoint, both creation and acquisition, again, on the local content when we need that.
As you know, we've got quite a slew of new content coming and great library of content, which really rounds out our offering, and we'll add to that our local offerings in order to make it a fully robust offering for each particular market, given the idiosyncrasies of what each market requires.
But we are also -- given the value of growing our sub base, we are continuing to invest in high-quality content.
We believe that content is the single biggest driver to not only acquiring subs, but retaining them.
So the awareness that we'll create through targeted marketing and marketing of the brand will basically mitigate what we believe is a very reasonable price increase given the amount of content and the value to subscribers.
Michael Morris – Guggenheim Securities, LLC A couple of questions on streaming.
First, I want to ask you about Hulu, the SVOD service on Hulu.
Hoping you can maybe share a little bit about the dynamic that's going on there, what the mix of sort of ad-supported versus ad-free subscriber base looks like.
And there are a number of these now free ad-supported streaming services that have been growing and being more aggressively populated.
Bob, you mentioned the Megacast approach to a couple of your big events.
Or is there an element of your ability to deliver a Megacast when you were negotiating for content rights, sports rights with the leagues or teams, the owners there, that you have a somewhat stronger negotiating position relative to your peers?
Christine McCarthy – Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, The Walt Disney Company So on Hulu SVOD, when you look at the relative mix of ad-supported versus ad-free, more of the subscribers are in the ad-ad-supported, and that is where we have seen the really nice growth of our addressable advertising.
But it's pretty much been the track record that Hulu has - having that relationship of ad-supported versus ad-free has been relatively consistent over their 10-year tenure.
And on a multicast question, I think it's both, both elements.
I think there's a consumer benefit to the fact that nobody else could do what ESPN does in terms of the multicast.
And I think what we're doing is throwing a wrench into that thinking and suggesting that maybe by taking a consumer-first approach and saying, boy, consumer choice is really a good thing for everybody, let's go ahead and maximize the number of touch points we have… not only do we get a benefit from our subscriber base for those folks that have ESPN, I think it's also very apparent to the leagues who hold the rights.