One is does Internet streaming slowdown, and that seems pretty unlikely.
Internet streaming has been amazingly consistent, prolific.
As you get new competition in, you get a validation of more reasons to get a smart TV or unlimited broadband.
So I think, for at least the next several years, the growth story of streaming as a whole is very intact.
And so we think mostly all of streaming is a growth story competing from linear TV and that, that will be true until, say, streaming is 50%, 60%, 70% of viewing.
But again, the next couple years, streaming is still in the early stages.
But before we get to that, help us understand what makes Netflix' core business a great investment for shareholders over the next 5-plus years.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JUL 20, 2021 Co-Founder, Chairman, President & Co-CEO The big picture that all investors get is being a secular Internet play.
And this is the Internet applied to entertainment, and consumer entertainment around the world is an enormous market.
I mean if we -- if you go overall -- and Nidhi, as you know, we're roughly 20% penetrated in broadband homes, and we talked on the last call that there's 800 million to 900 million either broadband or pay TV households around the world outside of China.
And then if you look at the range from an APAC region where we're only roughly 10% penetrated, so clearly early days, to our arguably, I guess, more tenured markets at least like in the UCAN, where even there with some of the metrics we put in the earnings letter streaming, and Reed alluded to this is, is only about 26%, according to Nielsen, of viewing consumption.
And then within streaming, we're only 7% -- we're only at 7% share of total TV.
So there's big tailwinds there in terms of that overall trend from linear to streaming entertainment.
It's creating content from anywhere to everywhere in this very large addressable market with these big profit pools.
Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO, Chief Content Officer & Director And I think if you think about how slow the business fundamentally changes and how quickly streaming has changed the entire marketplace in terms of the way consumers watch, you go back to about only 8 to 10 years ago, and no one was looking to the Internet or to streaming for the highest quality content.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JUL 20, 2021 Great to give you a platform.
At the same time, not all subs are created equal, and I think there's a lot of debate in the market as to how long can you continue to grow revenue double digit without some of these lower ARPU markets really starting to kick in, in terms of kind of meaningful revenue contribution.
And I would say we're working hard to think about how do we find this wide range of price points that speaks to a feature set and consumer needs in more affluent markets, and we're really trying to find ways to add more value there, while we are also thinking about the sort of populations that you're talking about and making sure that we're increasing the accessibility of the service and really the ability to participate in and derive joy from the stories that we're telling to more and more parts of the world's population that don't have as much means to pay.
And mostly, what we are looking at is in the specific calculus of how do we deliver more value, how do we provide a wider range of incredible stories at high quality and diversity of content that appeals to those consumers and appeals to more and more consumers around the world.
And I think in general, the dynamics of consolidation is you see it across all of these companies basically had consolidated themselves into bundles on cable for years.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JUL 20, 2021 -- these are all the same players we've been competing with from the beginning just through different channels.
And in terms of access to that offering, Netflix, because of the size of our distribution platform and our ability to connect creators with a big audience, has always been a big help in terms of luring content to our platform.
Time Warner, Discovery, if that goes through, that helps some, but it's not as significant, I would say, as Disney, Fox.
But again, day to day, we just focus on the content choosing and conversation, how do we improve the service for our members.
And like Greg said, there's so much competition from Instagram and TikTok and sports and the Olympics and everything else that, back to the Nielsen data for the U.S., there's plenty of room to grow without taking it away from the other streamers.
Going back to traditional TV networks, the most profitable networks did 40% plus EBIT margins at peak, and they didn't have the scale and direct-to- consumer business model that you have.
We have a revenue model and subscription that also scales well in kind of established larger and smaller and emerging markets, and that's great as well.
And then it's going to depend a bit on, as the business evolves, competitive dynamics, relative cost of content.
So most of our time is like, okay, how do we get the revenue growth going, how do we have the content that you just can't ignore, everybody's talking about, and that's what fuels those big surges.
On the last earnings call, you talked about video streaming being sort of the main profit pool and over time, potentially smaller supporting profit pools.
There's things that our consumers love it in our service.
Video gaming, we're pushing on that, and that will be part of our service, so unscripted, all those things.
So think of that as making the core service better.
And then there's a number of supporting elements, consumer products, various shopping where we're really trying to grow those to support the title brands to get our conversations up around each of the titles so that the Netflix service becomes must-have.
So they're not a profit pool of any material size on their own, but they are helping -- the reason we're doing them is to help the subscription service grow and be more important in people's lives, so I would say really, we're a one product company with a bunch of supporting elements that help that product be an incredible satisfaction for consumers and a monetizing engine for investors.
What are sort of the unique assets that Netflix brings to the table?
So just as we've continuously expanded the nature of our offering by adding new genres, unscripted, film, local language Copyright © 2021 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 10 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JUL 20, 2021 programming, animation, on and on, we think we have an opportunity to add gains to that offering and deliver more entertainment value to our members through that.
And we also feel that our subscription model yields some opportunities to focus on a set of game experiences that are currently underserved by the sort of dominant monetization models and games.
And as -- starting with mobile and sort of a content vertical strategy, is that sort of a starting point?
We've actually been delivering lighter-weight interactive experiences on TVs and TV connected devices for some time.
We'll also do licensing because we -- just as we've done in that sort of other genre expansion, it's a great way to increase the volume of the offering that we have at the start to learn more quickly.
Nidhi Gupta Fidelity Management & Research Company LLC And is the financial success of this over time, should we think about that as higher ARPU for the Netflix service?
Gregory K. Peters COO & Chief Product Officer I'm not going to guess it to very, very long term, but we're really thinking about this as a core part of our subscription offering.
Do you see Netflix becoming sort of the key destination for sports-related content over time?
Our fundamental product is on demand and advertising free, and sports tends to be live and packed with advertising.
And we've said in the past that we're open to content assets that can help accelerate our growth, things like intellectual property that we can develop into original series and movies.
First of all, our encumbrances, for example, which if some of these content assets are heavily encumbered and limit our ability to use them on Netflix, then they're of limited value to us since our top priority is to grow the core Netflix business.
We're happy in this very complicated time both in the world and in the business to be growing subscribers and revenue.
This is a big story mostly about how the world is in love with streaming.
And when it comes to watching your favorite show, your favorite film, it's more likely to be happening on streaming than ever before, and it's still just scratching the surface as to the potential for the business.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 15 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JUL 20, 2021 1,000 plates, but we're really focused on our 3 things, which is our content, our choosing and driving conversation around the world.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2021 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | JUL 20, 2021 Copyright © 2021 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.