Subscriber growth was inline and importantly, ARPU growth increased Y/Y.
Additionally, we saw another quarter of significant advertising strength and user engagement metrics across many markets showed encouraging signs of growth.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 1 MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS (“MAUs”) Total MAUs grew 19% Y/Y to 381 million in the quarter, up from 365 million last quarter and near the top end of our guidance range.
Total MAUs by Region PREMIUM SUBSCRIBERS Our Premium Subscribers grew 19% Y/Y to 172 million in the quarter, up from 165 million last quarter and towards the midpoint of the guidance range.
We tested a Premium promotion in the third quarter, which aided the typical seasonality of our business and also helped offset the tough comp from the successful launch of Russia and surrounding territories in Q3 last year.
This quarter we added several major promotional partnerships, including HMD Global (Spotify preloads on select Nokia branded smartphones and tablets across all 178 markets), LG U+ (offering 3 or 6 month trials in South Korea with one of the country’s largest telcos), OnePlus (Spotify preloads on OnePlus mobile devices in India with 3 or 6 month trials and a limited offer of 12 month trials to OnePlus Red Cable Club members), PayMaya (supporting pre-paid payment solutions for Spotify's daily, weekly and monthly subscriptions and offering 7 day trials in the Philippines), and Tinkoff (offering 3 month trials with Russia’s largest all-digital bank).
Premium Subscribers by Region FINANCIAL METRICS Revenue Revenue of €2,501 million grew 27% Y/Y in Q3 (or 26% Y/Y on a constant currency basis) and was at the top end of our guidance range due to significant strength in advertising.
Ad-Supported Revenue meaningfully outperformed, driven by higher sold impressions, increased CPMs, and accelerated demand within the Spotify Audience Network.
Our music business was driven by growth in impressions, a meaningful improvement in sell-through rate, and double-digit CPM growth.
Our Podcast business was driven by strong double-digit Y/Y growth at existing Spotify studios (The Ringer, Parcast, Spotify Studios, and Gimlet) along with the Megaphone acquisition and the exclusive licensing of the Joe Rogan Experience, Armchair Expert with Dax Shephard, and Call Her Daddy.
During Q3, the Spotify Audience Network continued to gain traction in the United States while expanding into the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia.
The Spotify Audience Network continued to outperform in the quarter, driven by higher available inventory and incremental revenue from international sales.
Since launch, the number of podcasts in our network has grown by more than 50%, and nearly 1 in 5 Spotify advertisers are already participating.
The Spotify Audience Network will open to top emerging podcast creators from Anchor in the coming weeks, increasing the scale and reach for our advertisers.
The Gross Margin improvement reflected a favorable revenue mix shift towards podcasts, marketplace activity, improved music advertising operating leverage, and Other Cost of Revenue efficiencies (e.g.
payment fees, streaming delivery costs), which were partially offset by higher non-music and other content costs and publishing rate increases.
As a reminder, all content costs related to podcast investment are included in the Ad-Supported business for the current and historical periods.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 4 Product and Platform During the quarter, we continued to lean into the personalization of our user experiences to help drive improved intake, retention, conversion, and LTV.
Key product rollouts included: Blend (the ability for two users to merge their music into one shared playlist), Enhance (the ability for Premium users to add personalized recommendations to their playlists), Episodes for You (episodic podcast level recommendations), and What’s New (a feed that gathers all new releases from the artists and shows that users follow).
In late August, we opened up our paid podcast subscriptions to all US creators with intentions to expand internationally to both more creators and users.
We also expanded the rollout of the Music + Talk format to 15 new markets, bringing this format to 21 markets around the world.
We announced a partnership with Delta Airlines that allows passengers to discover Spotify-curated music and podcasts within Delta’s in-flight entertainment system.
Additionally, we deepened our partnership with Roku, launching a pre-loaded playback stack, Spotify Connect discoverability, video podcast playback, and support for Roku’s voice assistant.
In August, Spotify launched a new smartwatch experience supporting offline and direct streaming on Google’s new Wear OS 3 platform (deployed with key brands such as Samsung, Fossil, and Mobvoi).
Within Two-Sided Marketplace, we continued to test Discovery Mode with record labels and distributors, where we saw Q/Q growth in customers and Gross Profit contribution.
Content At the end of Q3, we had 3.2 million podcasts on the platform (up from 2.9 million at the end of Q2).
The percentage of MAUs that engaged with podcast content continued to increase throughout the quarter, marking an acceleration relative to Q2 trends.
Among MAUs that engaged with podcasts in Q3, consumption trends remained strong (up 20% Y/Y on a per user basis) while month-over-month retention rates continued to trend positively.
During the quarter, podcast share of overall consumption hours on our platform also reached an all-time high.
We also announced a multi-year audio content partnership between The Ringer and WWE to develop original and exclusive audio content, as well as live audio discussions hosted on Spotify Greenroom after every big WWE pay-per-view event.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 5 Internationally, we released 76 new O&E podcasts, with notable traction in India and Latin America where Originals have been helpful in stimulating new user acquisition.
In Sweden, we announced seven new Spotify Originals from some of the most popular artists and talents in the country, including Spotify’s first Swedish podcast with video, Bakom micken med Filip Dikmen.
During the quarter, our music slate also saw significant new release activity.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 6 Q4 2021 Guidance: We have maintained our prior Q4 guidance for Total MAUs, Total Premium Subscribers, and Operating Profit/Loss, and have increased the bottom end of the range for Total Revenue and Gross Margin.
● Total MAUs: 400-407 million ● Total Premium Subscribers: 177-181 million ● Total Revenue: €2.54-€2.68 billion ○ Assumes approximately 250 bps tailwind to growth Y/Y due to movements in foreign exchange rates ● Gross Margin: 25.1-26.1% ● Operating Profit/Loss: €(152)-€(72) million SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM On August 20, 2021, Spotify announced a program to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its ordinary shares.
Daniel Ek, our Founder and CEO, and Paul Vogel, our Chief Financial Officer, will be on hand to answer questions submitted through slido.com using the event code #SpotifyEarningsQ321.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: Direct Event Registration Portal: http://www.directeventreg.com/registration/event/5679825 We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.