2020 was a bit of an outlier -- companies rarely grow in a straight line and nothing in our data changes our long term outlook and the audio opportunity for Spotify.
On everything from collaborative listening worldwide to launching our new live audio experience: Spotify Greenroom.
We also began rolling out Paid Podcast Subscriptions and Spotify Open Access, both of which offer solutions for creators and publishers to earn revenue from their Spotify listeners.
These product innovations unlock an entirely new class of content on Spotify.
1 Q2 2021 Earnings Call July 28, 2021 I’m hearing from consumers and creators alike about their first hand experiences with the changes they are seeing on the Spotify platform.
And frankly from where I sit, it’s incredibly exciting to know that there are plenty of improvements we can deliver that will substantially enhance our offering — and as a consequence, open new doors for Spotify as well.
Put in other words, the platform we are building is all about moving from 8 million to 50 million creators and from 400 million to more than one billion users on our platform.
For each improvement, we will turn more listeners into super fans, give a voice to more types of creators and offer users multiple ways to interact and engage with the talent they love.
We are still early in moving linear radio to on demand audio — which just goes to show the growth opportunity still out there is significant.
Then, there is the growing strength and importance of our ads business.
It’s now safe to say it's becoming a second big revenue driver for Spotify.
And I am especially inspired by the early success of the Spotify Audience Network.
While we are growing the overall ads business from a small base, the potential is significant and the trendline is clear: We saw strong growth of 110% year over year.
And looking at Podcasts, podcast revenue was up over 627% year over year -- or nearly 200% on an organic basis.
It’s clear to me that the days of our ads business accounting for less than 10% of our total revenue are behind us...going forward I expect ads to grow to be a substantial part of our revenue mix.
So as you can see, there is a lot going on and there’s a powerful pipeline of platform improvements that will benefit consumers, creators and brand partners in Q3 and Q4.
And in the long-term, the shift from linear to on-demand audio will only continue to accelerate and as a more than one billion user opportunity, reinforces our position as the audio browser of the world.
Long term, I believe these product innovations will bolster MAU and subscriber growth, helping to attract more and more users around the world and connecting them to the creators they already love as well as the ones they are waiting to discover.
I’ll be talking more about the quarter on our podcast, Spotify: For the Record, which will go live on our platform tomorrow.