● Premium Subscribers grew 16% Y/Y to 180 million in Q4, led by strong promotional campaign performance.
● Ad-Supported Revenue reached a record 15% of Total Revenue in Q4.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 1 MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS (“MAUs”) Total MAUs grew 18% Y/Y to 406 million in the quarter, up from 381 million last quarter and near the top end of our guidance range.
On December 1, 2021, we successfully launched the 7th annual year-end Spotify Wrapped campaign to users in 103 markets.
The campaign trended worldwide with nearly 60 million shares of Wrapped stories and cards, triggering significant levels of consumption across our two personalized playlists (Your Top Songs and Your Artists Revealed) which were responsible for almost 8% of total on-platform consumption hours within 48 hours of launch.
Total MAUs by Region PREMIUM SUBSCRIBERS Our Premium Subscribers grew 16% Y/Y to 180 million in the quarter, up from 172 million last quarter and near the top end of the guidance range.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 2 This quarter we also added several major promotional partnerships, including Xiaomi (Spotify preloads on the world’s second largest phone manufacturer), Shopee (offering 3 month trials with the number one eCommerce platform in Southeast Asia), Visa (offering 3 month trials in India for credit and debit cardholders), and TecToy (Spotify preloads on TecToy mobile devices in Brazil and 3 month trials available for TecToy customers who make an audio or technology portfolio product purchase).
Premium Subscribers by Region FINANCIAL METRICS Revenue Revenue of €2,689 million grew 24% Y/Y in Q4 (or 20% Y/Y on a constant currency basis) and was above the top end of our guidance range due to significant strength in advertising and favorable FX movements.
Ad-Supported Revenue reached a record 15% of total revenues in the quarter and continued to benefit from higher sold impressions, increased CPMs, and growing demand within the Spotify Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 3 Audience Network.
Podcast revenue strength was led by the Spotify Audience Network, where we saw a significant increase in inventory in conjunction with increased CPMs.
Additionally, podcast revenue benefited from strong growth across existing Spotify studios and our exclusive licensing deals.
During the quarter, we announced the acquisition of Whooshkaa, a podcast technology platform that offers a specialized tool for radio broadcasters to turn their existing audio content into on- demand podcast content.
This technology will be integrated into the Megaphone suite which will bring more third-party content into the Spotify Audience Network, connect advertisers to more audiences, and allow radio broadcasters to expand their reach and increase monetization.
The Gross Margin trend reflected a favorable revenue mix shift towards podcasts, marketplace activity, and Other Cost of Revenue efficiencies (e.g.
payment fees, streaming delivery costs), which were offset by higher non-music and other content costs and publishing rate increases.
As a reminder, our Q4 2020 Gross Margin benefited from adjustments to estimated music royalties that positively impacted Gross Margin by nearly 60 bps.
As a reminder, all content costs related to podcast investment are included in the Ad-Supported business for the current and historical periods.
Free Cash Flow Free Cash Flow was €103 million in Q4, a €29 million increase Y/Y primarily due to an increase in net income adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by higher working capital needs Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 4 arising from higher podcast-related payments and licensor payments.
Podcasting At the end of Q4, we had 3.6 million podcasts on the platform (up from 3.2 million at the end of Q3) and were pleased to see a double digit increase in the number of MAUs that engaged with podcast content relative to Q3.
Among MAUs that engaged with podcasts in Q4, consumption trends remained strong (up 20% Y/Y on a per user basis) and podcast share of overall consumption hours on our platform reached another all-time high.
We also expanded our paid podcast subscriptions to creators and listeners in 33 additional markets and enabled podcasts for users in Russia, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia.
Product Enhancements During the quarter, we introduced several enhancements to our service aimed at driving user engagement, retention, and conversion.
These included the rollout of lyrics on mobile, desktop, and smart TV platforms and extensions to our ubiquity strategy such as support for Alexa in Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates, a partnership with Peloton to match users with an instructor based on their listening taste, an audio playback widget with Vivo, and an integration with Apple’s SharePlay product which allows Spotify Premium users to share their favorite content over FaceTime to enjoy a shared listening experience.
Audiobooks During the quarter, we also accelerated our entry into the audiobook space through the announcement of the agreement to acquire Findaway, a global leader in digital audiobook distribution.
● Total MAUs: 418 million ● Total Premium Subscribers: 183 million ● Total Revenue: €2.60 billion ○ Assumes approximately 360 bps tailwind to growth Y/Y due to movements in foreign exchange rates ● Gross Margin: 25.0% ● Operating Profit/Loss: €(67) million SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM On August 20, 2021, Spotify announced a program to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its ordinary shares.
Daniel Ek, our Founder and CEO, and Paul Vogel, our Chief Financial Officer, will be on hand to answer questions submitted through slido.com using the event code #SpotifyEarningsQ421.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 6 Direct Event Registration Portal: https://conferencingportals.com/event/txExvogt We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.