To our stockholders, customers, employees, and partners, impact in the world.
The benefits of our innovation help millions To help our customers make the transformational shift to across the globe – from the creative professional, to digital overnight, we provisioned 30 million students at home students, governments, small businesses, and the largest with Adobe Creative Cloud and provided teachers with multinational enterprises – create, be productive, and distance learning support.
We offered our web-based PDF develop and deliver the world’s best digital experiences.” services on Adobe.com to assist with document productivity while working from home.
The benefits of our innovation help millions across the globe – As a product company at our core, Adobe’s innovation engine from the creative professional, to students, governments, continued to fire on all cylinders.
In Adobe Creative Cloud, we small businesses, and the largest multinational enterprises delivered significant product innovation that extended our –create, be productive, and develop and deliver the world’s applications to multiple surfaces and broke new ground in best digital experiences.
In Adobe the leader in three massive, growing categories – creativity, Experience Cloud, we launched new capabilities in Adobe documents, and customer experience management – all of Experience Platform to expand real-time customer profiles, which are at the nexus of this digital revolution.
Our strategy Intelligent Services to further the use of artificial intelligence of Unleashing Creativity, Accelerating Document Productivity, in organizations, and Customer Journey Analytics to unify and Powering Digital Businesses is driving our success across and activate cross-channel data.
of Workfront, the leading work management platform for marketers, furthering our vision to establish an industry- Last year, we saw the profound ability creativity has to leading marketing system of record.
Content is fueling the global economy, with new devices, digital event like none other, featuring some of the biggest channels, and modalities leading to an explosion of content names in creativity and garnering 21 million views.
With Adobe Creative Cloud, we data from trillions of transactions powered by Adobe are Unleashing Creativity – giving anyone, anywhere the Experience Cloud, we provided a unique, real-time assessment tools to express their creativity.
We are the leader in core of the economy with the Adobe Digital Economy Index, giving creative categories like photography, design, video, and companies a view of digital commerce trends to help them illustration, and we are expanding our leadership in emerging manage their businesses in a dynamic market.
Applications like Illustrator for iPad, Photoshop list for the 5th year in a row, consistently named a best place Camera, Rush, and Spark are expanding our customer to work globally, and a leader in diversity and sustainability universe, advancing our vision to democratize creativity.
We earned the top The shift to remote work has made digital workflows even spot in Fortune’s Blue Ribbon list for appearing on seven of its more mission-critical in powering the modern business.
The paper-to-digital transformation is accelerating, and cloud and mobile are reshaping how we work, enabling All of this culminated in another strong fiscal year for Adobe.
greater collaboration and efficiencies across dispersed We achieved $12.87 billion in revenue, representing 15% year- teams.
With Adobe Document Cloud, we are Accelerating over-year growth.
Through Adobe Sensei, our artificial intelligence growth at scale is unparalleled, and we are well-positioned to and machine learning technology, we are deciphering trillions capture the expansive market opportunities ahead of us.
Supported with a rich set of APIs, Adobe Document Cloud provides a cloud Growth Strategy ecosystem that is revolutionizing how applications and services are built.
Adobe has always been relentlessly focused on looking around the corner, driving towards the next big market Every business has become a digital business, and the opportunity to solve customer challenges and anticipate their imperative for customer experience management has needs.
With Adobe Experience Cloud, we execution, have enabled our continuous growth for nearly four are Powering Digital Businesses of all sizes, giving them decades.
everything they need to design and deliver great customer experiences at scale.
Adobe Experience Cloud is the most can result in hyper-personalized experiences that deliver comprehensive set of market-leading solutions across content tremendous customer value.
and commerce, customer journey management, data and insights, and work management, all powered by the Adobe People Are Our Greatest Asset Experience Platform.
To further our value proposition, we are investing in artificial intelligence and machine learning, None of this would be possible without our 22,000+ delivering next-generation applications and services on the employees around the globe, who are rallied around our Adobe Experience Platform, and accelerating the integration mission and strategy – to create products and experiences of our offerings.
“It is our belief that everyone deserves equal treatment Ethics and Integrity and opportunity, and that building a diverse and inclusive workplace that is reflective of the world we As our products become increasingly ubiquitous and we bring live in is not only the right thing to do, but essential to transformational technologies to bear, we are committed to ensuring that our employee base represents the broad Digital Citizenship – the responsible use of technology for the range of customers that Adobe serves.“ good of our customers and society – in areas such as content authenticity, artificial intelligence ethics, privacy, and security.
We are leading workplace that is reflective of the world we live in is not the Content Authenticity Initiative (CAI) with numerous only the right thing to do, but essential to ensuring that our partners in hardware, software, publishing, and social media, employee base represents the broad range of customers that establishing the standard for transparency and attribution Adobe serves.
We started with Photoshop and Behance and plan continued investment in the growth and development of to expand into other Adobe Creative Cloud applications this our employees around the world, and vibrant employee year.
We provide our the “Taking Action Initiative,” our strategy to accelerate the enterprise customers with tools that enable them to manage representation, development, and success of the Black their consumers’ information, and our enterprise solutions are community across hiring and recruiting, growth and CCPA and GDPR ready.
collaborate and innovate, while utilizing the flexibility that comes with working from home.
Most importantly, continuing enables cloud-based software delivery, paperless workflows, to foster our industry-leading culture and the growth and and virtual collaboration, allowing our customers to create a impact of our people will remain a top priority, regardless of more sustainable future.
The U.S. Census used Adobe Experience Cloud to power the first Digital Decennial Purpose At Our Core Census in 2020.
Ben & Jerry’s used Adobe Creative Cloud to create 3D renderings of ice cream pints in a virtual Adobe’s mission has always been to create products that photoshoot, eliminating expenses and emissions that come empower people to change the world.
Financial institutions have anchored on harnessing our people, platform, creativity, and leveraged Adobe Sign to process loans and other essential innovation to make lasting change in the areas where we can operations online, reducing their carbon footprint.
Technology Scholarship, and The Design Circle Scholarship Initiative, all of which provide skills and mentorship, products, In 2020, Adobe invested over $86 million in our communities and resources to prepare candidates for roles in technology through our philanthropy, volunteer, and product donation and design.
Our corporate social responsibility programs (CSR) Sundance Fellowship, and we are a sponsor of the Sundance served over 71,000 non-profits worldwide, reaching 1.6 million underserved people.
Looking Ahead Sincerely, Adobe has the right strategy, applied to an exceptional opportunity — we expect our total addressable market to be $147 billion in 2023 and plan to surpass $15 billion in revenue in FY21.
Our proven capability to create and lead Shantanu Narayen categories, expansive customer universe, industry-leading Chairman, President & CEO products, talented employees, and world-class financial Adobe Inc. discipline give us an unmatched competitive advantage.