We have entertainment’s most iconic brands and the world’s favorite franchises, a high-quality creative pipeline that will continue to drive engagement and consumption, and an unrivaled synergy machine with touchpoints that reach audiences across distribution channels, geographies, and demographics – all of which come together to create a deep, emotional connection with audiences across generations.
Another standout this quarter were our streaming services.
That includes 7.9 million Disney+ subscribers, keeping us on track to reach 230 to 260 million Disney+ subscribers by fiscal 2024.
Quite simply, we believe Disney+ is one of a kind—a service based on exceptional branded content, with wide appeal across all four quadrants.
In recognition of Disney+’s unique ability to attract viewers from a range of demographic groups, we are selectively enhancing Disney+ with general entertainment titles designed to drive sign-ups among specific audiences, and deepen engagement amongst those cohorts.
A benefit of our incredible creative engines and decades of general entertainment excellence is that we can reach these demographics not only through the creation of original titles, but also by shifting resources from across our content ecosystem, especially as consumer behavior continues to evolve.
We believe these premium local originals, along with branded content with broad international appeal, will attract new subscribers and drive engagement.
This is just one example of how our global network of creative hubs can develop and produce original content with worldwide appeal.
Before leaving Disney+, I want to mention our recently-announced plans to introduce an ad- supported subscription offering in the U.S. by the end of the calendar year, and internationally in 2023.
Looking ahead, our studios will continue to deliver high quality content at scale, with an exciting array of series and films coming to all of our distribution channels.
In fact, our franchise library and capabilities will continue to set us apart even further as we bring our IP to life through next generation storytelling that is more integrated and connected across consumer touch points.
This was primarily driven by 7 points of growth from higher rates, partially offset by a 3-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers.
Internationally, excluding Disney+ Hotstar, we added over two million paid subscribers versus the first quarter, with Latin America being the strongest contributor, driven by growth of the Combo+ offering.
ESPN+ ended Q2 with 22.3 million paid subscribers, a net increase of about 1 million versus Q1.
And at Hulu, which ended the second quarter with 45.6 million paid subscribers, higher subscription and advertising revenues versus the prior year were more than offset by higher programming and production, marketing and technology costs.
Moving on to Content Sales, Licensing, and Other, results decreased by approximately $300 million versus the prior year, driven by lower TV and SVOD results, which we discussed in our guidance last quarter, in addition to a decrease in home entertainment results.
As a reminder, these impacts are deliberately aligned with our strategic decision to utilize our content on our own direct-to-consumer services.
We recognized a revenue reversal of $1 billion related to the early termination of content licensing agreements with a customer, in order to make that content available on our own direct-to-consumer services.
As we continue to strategically prioritize leveraging our content for our own services, we expect Content Sales, Licensing and Other operating results to decrease in the third quarter by approximately $150 to $200 million versus the prior year.
You're putting a lot more content onto the service.
You mentioned the Disney+ ad tier – I think this is going to give us the ability to reach an even more broad audience as we expand Disney+ across multiple price points.
Our advertisers increasingly are looking for multiple platforms to reach a broader reach.
And we think that as a company, we're going to provide that given our portfolio of streaming and our Linear Networks.
So I think we're creating more avenues, both for consumer choice and for comprehensive advertising solutions for our advertising customers at the same time.
Maybe first, Bob, what's holding you back from making ESPN+ a fully a la carte sports network?
Disney historically has always been more aggressive in the pivot to streaming than some of the peers.
We've already seen some of the peers put a lot of their key sports like the NFL on to streaming.
You talked a lot about how much the bundle is working with Disney+ and Hulu.
So just really wondering how you're thinking about all the content you've got on ESPN+ and what it would take to make that fully a la carte and drive the DTC strategy even harder?
Of the $32 billion in content spend, any help in sizing maybe how much of that is either general entertainment or local content?
And when you think about the balance of that $32 billion, a meaningful amount of it will be enterprise-wide content budget that will be dedicated into investments into the general entertainment content that we can leverage across all of our various distribution platforms.
When we say that, we mean linear, theatrical, as well as direct-to-consumer.
And as I mentioned earlier, our world-class creative teams are focused on creating content that will drive subscriber growth in targeted segments and deeper engagement across the platform.
As Bob mentioned, we have about 500 shows in the pipeline for local content outside of the U.S. or English speaking.
Kannan Venkateshwar – Barclays So Bob, first, I guess, when we think about the streaming goal, if we are really looking at 240 million subs at the midpoint, with the new ad-supported streaming service, what proportion of the base do you expect will be on that tier versus normal premium tier, especially given the fact that now you may have to do more than 50 million subs a year to get to that goal given the trend lines for this year?
On streaming, right now, we have not disclosed a mix or expected mix of an ad-supported tier.
And I'm not sure if you're willing to share how much of Disney+ viewing is new content versus library, just thinking as more and more new content starts to show up and ramp.
In terms of our confidence in Disney+ guidance, as you probably know, we have a tremendous amount of data that we get on our DTC platforms, things like the first view, what's the first view that somebody watches when they first come on to our platform, which is a pretty good proxy for maybe why they signed up.
And that modeling suggests that in addition to things like local market content, new content coming online, both in terms of general entertainment and from franchises as well as new Page 29 Q2 FY22 Earnings Conference Call May 11, 2022 markets being added that, that Disney+ guidance is going to be very achievable for us both in terms of the sub adds and in terms of the operating performance.
My first is, can you share anything else on what remains to be done prior to the rollout, the implementation of that advertising tier?
Or what are you building or anything like that given the pieces that you do already have in place through your ownership of Hulu, et cetera?
So I'm curious about the advertising infrastructure.
Given that Disney+ is still half the price of Netflix domestically, I'm curious if ad-supported ARPU could actually be higher than where you are right now and if this does present a catalyst for you to raise price on the ad-free service.
The combination of our ESPN+, streaming tech stack and our experience in Hulu and the software, we think that our current advertising capabilities really substantially prepare us to already bring this tier into operations.
And I will say that you can look to our experience with Hulu and their ad-supported tier.