Case in point is the strength of our music business, evidenced by the recent release of new royalty data on our Loud&Clear website.
The data clearly outlines the role Spotify and streaming are playing in growing the entire music ecosystem.
In fact, the worldwide growth is truly staggering as more artists hit milestones across all revenue levels.
This strength is built on the investments we continue to make in constantly enhancing our platform, which in turn, elevates the experience for users and creators.
But to give you a sense of the breadth and impact our investments are already having for creators, users and advertisers, allow me to offer a few examples of things we shipped this quarter.
1 Take our ads business, which continues to be a strong revenue driver thanks to the investments we are making to modernize audio advertising.
Recent third party surveys validate this belief showing that Spotify is the “must-buy” audio ad partner in the US.
We are delivering more impact for advertisers and publishers through acquisitions like Podsights and Chartable and we are already seeing the impact these moves are having on renewal rates and deal sizes.
These moves will bring important innovation to the marketplace and accelerate our ability to unlock significant revenue growth in both music and podcasts.
At Spotify, we are constantly testing and experimenting and in Q1 alone, we ran almost 2,000 experiments, a 5% increase over the previous quarter.
In the first 20 days of the Blend campaign, we had 22M users create Blend playlists.
And we are also seeing incredible user engagement worldwide with over 60% of streams coming from Gen Z listeners.
Our podcast business also continues to surpass even our own high expectations with podcast share of overall consumption hours reaching another all-time record last quarter.
We now have more than 4 million podcasts on our platform, up 53% year over year and up from 3.6 million last quarter with emerging markets in Latin America and Asia driving a lot of this growth.
With more than 1,150 original and exclusive shows on our platform, overall podcast consumption is strong – and increasingly sticky – especially as we innovate with features like video, which more and more creators are taking advantage of as they seek to reach new global audiences and connect and interact with their fans in new ways.
It’s important to note that MAU did see an estimated 3mn benefit from a brief service outage that logged users out of Spotify, causing a portion of affected users to create new accounts to log back in.
On the premium front, we reached 182mn subscribers in Q1.
Adjusting for that impact, net subscriber growth finished ahead of plan and was aided by outperformance in Latin America and Europe.
Regardless, we are very encouraged by the trends we’re seeing across the rest of the business and on a like-for-like basis, we see very healthy gains in Q2.
Our Q2 subscriber guidance of 187mn implies net adds of 6mn ex-Russia and reflects benefit from a one month global marketing campaign in the quarter.
Lastly, our outlook for a Q2 gross margin of 25.2% reflects our expectation for continued core operating improvement across our music and podcasting businesses, offset by select growth initiatives.
In the meantime, we will share more about the quarter on our For the Record podcast so I hope you will tune in.