● Netflix has higher engagement than any other streamer – with room for growth: ○ In the UK, Netflix accounts for 8.2% of video viewing, 2.3x Amazon and 2.7x Disney+1; ○ In the US, Netflix accounts for 7.6% of TV time, 2.6x Amazon and 1.4x Disney + Hulu + Hulu Live2.
● Our competitors are investing heavily to drive subscribers and engagement, but building a large, successful streaming business is hard - we estimate they are all losing money, with combined 2022 operating losses well over $10 billion, vs. Netflix's $5 to $6 billion annual operating profit.
Our aim 3ARM(Average Revenue per Membership) is defined asstreaming revenue divided by the average number of streaming paid memberships divided by the number of months in the period.
This will become particularly important heading into 2023 as we develop new revenue streams like advertising and paid sharing, where membership is just one component of our revenue growth.
Content & Marketing We started our original programming strategy about a decade ago as we anticipated that some competitors would eventually stop licensing their content to Netflix.
Given everything we’ve learned, we’re confident we can deliver even more member value per content investment dollar over time.
So we’re excited that BARB (Broadcasters Audience Research Board), the leading audience measurement and video ratings organization in the UK, is now reporting the share of video viewing for streaming services and broadcast groups in the UK on a monthly basis.
In September, Netflix accounted for 8.2% of viewing, and we have more than 2x the monthly engagement of our next closest streaming competitor.
This reporting is similar to Nielsen’s Gauge, which launched in May 2021 when Netflix accounted for 6% of viewing compared to 7.6% in August 2022.
Our hope is that other measurement companies around the world will join Nielsen and BARB to publicly report on both the shift from linear to streaming and the viewing share of relevant entertainment companies.
We continue to complement our original films with 3rd party licensed films - they remain an important and valued part of our service, but they are just one component of our broader programming strategy.
We publish weekly our top titles based on hours viewed atNetflix Top 10, whereyou can also find our detailed methodology.
We also continue to invest heavily in marketing, with a particular focus on innovative ways to drive conversation around our titles, which in turn boosts engagement for Netflix.
We now have 35 games on service (all included in every Netflix subscription without in-game ads or in-app purchases) and we’re seeing some encouraging signs of gameplay leading to higher retention.
More generally, we see a big opportunity around content that crosses between TV or film and games.
Last week, weannouncedthat we’llbe launching an ad-supported subscription plan on November 1 in Canada and Mexico; November 3 in Australia, Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea, the UK, and the US; and November 10 in Spain.
Cumulatively, these 12 markets account for ~$140 billion of brand advertising spend across TV and streaming, or over 75% of the global market5.
To start, we’re keeping it simple by offering one low-priced ad plan – Basic with Ads – at a price that’s 20%-40% below our current starting price.
The Basic with Ads plan will have ~5 minutes of advertising per hour, frequency capping and strong privacy protections.
The reaction from advertisers so far has been extremely positive and we believe that more choice, especially for more price conscious consumers, will translate into meaningful incremental revenue and operating profit over time.
That said, it’s still very early days and, since we’re keeping our existing plans ad-free, it will take us time to build up our membership base and the associated ad revenue.
6 ability for borrowers to transfer their Netflix profile into their own account, and for sharers to manage their devices more easily and to create sub-accounts (“extra member”), if they want to pay for family or friends.
Competition As we’ve long said, we operate in a highly competitive industry, where people have many different entertainment choices – from linear TV to streaming, YouTube to TikTok and gaming to social media.
The silver lining is that the opportunity is very large and growing, and Netflix is still very small relative to that opportunity (for example, ~8% of total TV time in the US and the UK, two of our most established countries).
In the 190 countries in which we operate, our $30 billion-plus of annual revenue is roughly 5% of the combined estimated ~$300 billion pay TV/streaming industry, ~$180 billion branded advertising market, and $130 billion consumers spend annually on gaming6.
As it’s become clear that streaming is the future of entertainment, our competitors – including media companies and tech players – are investing billions of dollars to scale their new services.
But it's hard to build a large and profitable streaming business – our best estimate is that all of these competitors are losing money on streaming, with aggregate annual direct operating losses this year alone that could be well in excess of $10 billion, compared with our +$5-$6 billion of annual operating profit.
For incumbent entertainment companies, this high level of investment is understandable given the accelerating decline of linear TV, which currently generates the bulk of their profit.
Ultimately though, we believe some of our competitors will seek to build sustainable, profitable businesses in streaming - either on their own or through continued industry consolidation.
While it’s early days, we’re starting to see this increased profit focus - with some raising prices for their streaming services, some reigning in content spending, and some retrenching around traditional operating models which may dilute their direct-to-consumer offering.
Amidst this formidable, diverse set of competitors, we believe our focus as a pure-play streaming business is an advantage.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively, including for consumer engagement with different modes of entertainment; our ability to monetize account sharing; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks; macroeconomic conditions and timing of content releases.