Those efforts resulted in truly phenomenal storytelling, record annual results at our Parks, Experiences and Products segment, and outstanding growth at our direct-to-consumer services, which added nearly 57 million subscriptions this year to reach a total of more than 235 million.
We are particularly pleased with growth in the fourth quarter, which saw the addition of 14.6 million subscriptions across our suite of services, including 12 million Disney+ subscriptions— over 9 million of which were core Disney+.
Building a streaming powerhouse has required significant investment.
And third, leveraging our learnings and experience in direct-to-consumer to optimize our content slate and distribution approach to deliver a steady state of high-impact releases that efficiently drive engagement and subscriber acquisition.
With these factors, we believe we are on the path to profitable streaming business that generates shareholder value long into the future.
Christine will go into more detail on the drivers of our direct-to-consumer operating performance and provide more insight into our expectations going forward and some of our key assumptions, but first I’d like to share a few highlights from the quarter.
Of course, all of our theatrical titles will eventually make their way onto our streaming platforms, complementing our robust slate of original content.
As we move forward, we will increasingly leverage that knowledge to refine our distribution decisions in order to best serve our audience and maximize the return on our content investments.
Turning to sports, ESPN was the #1 cable network in total day and prime viewing amongst audiences aged 18 to 49 in Q4, and The Walt Disney Company was responsible for 40% of sports hours watched amongst that age bracket – the biggest share of any family of networks.
ESPN continues to lead with its multi-platform sports ecosystem, with reach across linear, streaming, digital, and social media serving fans at massive scale.
Finally, we are exactly one month from the U.S. launch of Disney+’s ad-supported subscription offering, which is a win for audiences, advertisers, and shareholders.
The launch will bring fans a new slate of subscription plans across Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+ and the Disney Bundle, giving viewers flexibility in choosing an option that suits their needs.
We have been a leader in streaming advertising for some time, and are bringing our years of experience, leading ad-tech, and relationships to this important opportunity.
As we celebrate the three-year anniversary of Disney+ this week, I can’t help but reflect upon how our commitment to and substantial investment in our DTC business has helped to create: the world’s most powerful suite of streaming services, with the ability to reach hundreds of millions of viewers around the world, with must-see content.
Services which aren’t just content delivery systems, but platforms that bring us closer to audiences than ever before, and enable consumers to access more of The Walt Disney Company’s total offering.
With our unmatched brands and franchises, robust pipeline of content capable of filling all of our distribution channels, unique experiences, and strong connections to audiences around the world, I believe we are well-positioned for future long term growth, and am confident in the path forward.
The increase at Domestic Channels primarily reflects higher results at Cable, driven by lower programming and production costs, partially offset by a decrease in advertising revenue.
Looking ahead, we expect to see linear subscriber declines accelerate more in line with industry trends.
While difficult comparisons may persist in the intermediate term at our TV/SVOD and home entertainment businesses, results will vary quarter to quarter, and we currently expect Content Sales, Licensing and Other operating results to improve slightly in the first fiscal quarter of 2023, on both a sequential and year over year basis.
Hulu and ESPN+ added approximately 1 million and 1.5 million subscribers, respectively, during the quarter, while Disney+ added over 12 million global subscribers, of which a little less than 3 million were at Disney+ Hotstar.
Page 15 Q4 FY22 Earnings Conference Call November 8, 2022 ARPU at each streaming service is also impacted by the mix of subscribers to the bundle.
Our bundled and multi-product offerings now account for over 40% of our fiscal year-end domestic Disney+ subscriber count.
This shift has been purposeful as the bundle drives higher total company subscription revenue, and higher long term subscriber value due to notably lower churn.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2023, we expect Direct-to-Consumer operating results to improve by at least $200 million versus the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, with larger improvement expected in Q2, reflecting a couple of key factors: First, our recently announced price increases across our Direct-to-Consumer offerings in the U.S. should begin to modestly benefit ARPU and subscription revenue in the first quarter.
As it relates to subscribers, we expect ESPN+ and Hulu will continue to add new subscribers in Q1, and we expect Core Disney+ subscribers to increase only slightly in the quarter, reflecting tougher comparisons against Disney+ Day performance.
As we’ve mentioned before, subscriber growth will not be linear each and every quarter, and the trend is driven by several factors, including content releases and promotions.
And at Disney+ Hotstar, we are currently expecting that subscribers will decline in Q1 due to the absence of the IPL, but we do expect to see some stabilization in Q2.
I’ll note that our Direct-to-Consumer expectations are built on certain assumptions around subscriber additions based on the attractiveness of our future content, churn expectations for our upcoming price increases, the financial impact of the Disney+ ad tier and price increases, and our ability to quickly execute on cost rationalization while preserving revenue, all of which, while based on extensive internal analysis as well as recent experience, provides a layer of uncertainty in our outlook.
But we've got so many years of history with Hulu, where we've given them options between advertising and non-advertising; Hulu + Live TV, without Hulu + Live TV; that we believe that we've got a pretty good formula for how we could communicate, and that formula has worked very well domestically.
Page 19 Q4 FY22 Earnings Conference Call November 8, 2022 But also at the same time, as our platforms become just that, more and more platforms and less and less just distribution options, we’ve got a pretty good formula, I think, for making that simple for the consumer, but also enabling for the consumer to go ahead and subscribe in the way that suits them best.
The Direct-to-Consumer, we're looking at improving profitability, as we've mentioned.
Kannan Venkateshwar – Barclays Maybe, I guess – if you look at the streaming business as a whole, and if you step back and look at the strategy going forward, you'll see a price increase next quarter.
And of course, there is also the ad-supported tier that could help manage some of the churn.
But as an offset, it seems like some of the marketing expense will be optimized along with some content spending.
If we look at the content that's going to actually fuel our subscriber growth and our engagement, we're obviously managing that very carefully.
That's not only across marketing, but also on the content spending itself as well.
We launched these services at tremendous values to the consumer.
So we believe that – and our history shows that when we've taken price increases across our streaming businesses that we don't meaningfully increase churn or cancellations.
So as you look to expand the reach of ESPN, I know we've had this question before, but how do you think about starting to make a lot of the marquee streaming rights – or sorry, marquee sports rights also available on the streaming services, whether that's ESPN+ or others?
And how do you think about monetizing in a streaming world with a lot more of those expensive rights available?
However, going forward, we've got the ability not only to continue to enjoy those benefits in the linear world, but also began to grow our opportunities in the digital realm and leverage that brand's growth into other avenues that we've not been able to necessarily tap into.
I think it's also important to look at ESPN in terms of an important part of the overall Disney portfolio or synergy machine.
We've got multiple platforms, and I believe that it's going to be a very robust part of our company going forward, whether or not it's linear or whether it's digital or somewhere in between.
We will not do deals where we don't get multi-platform rights to give us that very flexibility that we talked about toggling between sort of the more linear traditional legacy distribution channels and that of the more digital forward-looking platforms.