User growth and subscriber growth keeps humming along very steadily.
Topline growth in the platform is the leading indicator for future success on all other financial metrics.
But for Spotify, our business continues to perform very nicely around the world.
Outside ads, we aren’t seeing much impact at all, and the ads business is still 1 growing and will be important – but remains a relatively small portion of our overall revenue today.
If you recall, at our Investor Day in June, I said that I suspect many of you think Spotify is a great product.
Our Q3 results clearly show that our investments in the product and experience have resulted in strong user growth, retention and increased engagement.
And the beauty of LTV is that it factors in the longevity, quality, and value of the relationship we have with a user.
We are constantly experimenting with what leads our users to stay longer, engage more deeply, and ultimately, convert to our paid offerings.
I believe we have the lowest churn across our competitive set because of the many ways we keep listeners engaged and happy – and therefore retained.
And because of the strength of this relationship, we know that spending to acquire new users is a worthwhile investment that over time, will have a meaningful return.
and second, over the long term, that investment must strengthen our value proposition to users and creators alike.
This would then offer us a clear opportunity to grow our market share even in a challenging economy because we can acquire users at a lower cost relative to LTV.
Especially in this “show me market.” But simply put, I don’t think that’s a winning strategy long term, nor is it the right one for Spotify.
Q3 OPERATING PERFORMANCE Starting with our strong user performance.
Total Monthly Active Users grew to 456 million in Q3.
This was the largest Q3 net additions in our history and excluding our exit from Russia, our year to date net additions are at a record high and we expect this to sustain through year-end.
Moving to Premium, we finished the quarter with 195 million Subscribers – 1 million ahead of guidance – thanks to broad-based strength across regions, particularly in LATAM.
Our Advertising business grew 19% Y/Y and was led by strong double digit gains in our podcasting business.
When we began 2022 we stated that we expected to see MAU and Subscriber net additions grow at 4 roughly similar levels to 2021.
Last, Q4 includes restructuring charges at our podcasting business which should lead to improved productivity at select studios on a go forward basis.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ322.
For more detail, check out our For the Record podcast dropping later this evening.