Streaming is winning over linear, as we predicted, and Netflix titles are very popular globally.
Key to our success has been our ability to create amazing entertainment from all around the world, present it in highly personalized ways, and win more viewing than our competitors.
These are Netflix's core strengths and competitive advantages.
Together with our strong profitability, we believe we have the foundation from which we can both significantly improve, and better monetize, our service longer term.
Growth Outlook Since launching streaming in 2007, we’ve operated under the firm belief that internet-delivered, on demand entertainment will supplant linear TV, and that this transition represents a once-in-a-generation opportunity to build a highly popular and profitable entertainment company.
People love movies, TV shows and games; broadband and smart TV penetration continue to grow globally with more and more connected devices; and while hundreds of millions of homes pay for Netflix, well over half of the world’s broadband homes don’t yet, representing huge future growth potential.
First, it’s increasingly clear that the pace of growthinto our underlying addressable market (broadband homes) is partly dependent on factors we don’t directly control, like the uptake of connected TVs (since the majority of our viewing is on TVs), the adoption of on-demand entertainment, and data costs.
We believe these factors will keep improving over time, so that all broadband households will be potential Netflix customers.
Second, in addition to our 222m paying households,we estimate that Netflix is being shared with over 100m additional households, including over 30m in the UCAN region.
Third, competition for viewing with linear TV as wellas YouTube, Amazon, and Hulu has been robust for the last 15 years.
However, over the last three years, as traditional entertainment companies realized streaming is the future, many new streaming services have also launched.
While our US television viewing share, for example, has been steady to up according to Nielsen, we want to grow that share faster.
Note: Hulu and YouTube figures include their virtual MVPD services.
2 Our plan is to reaccelerate our viewing and revenue growth by continuing to improve all aspects of Netflix - in particular the quality of our programming and recommendations, which is what our members value most.
This focus on continuous improvement has served us well over the past 25 years - from our big battle with Blockbuster nearly 20 years ago through the launch and growth of streaming, to the switch from licensed second run TV series and films to original programming, and our development from a domestic business with primarily English language content to a global entertainment service.
It’s why we are now the largest subscription streaming service in the world on all key metrics: paid memberships, engagement, revenue and profit.
This is a big opportunity as these households are already watching Netflix and enjoying our service.
Sharing likely helped fuel our growth by getting more people using and enjoying Netflix.
And we've always tried to make sharingwithina member’shousehold easy, with features like profiles and multiple streams.
While these have been very popular, they’ve created confusion about when and how Netflix can be shared with other households.
As we work to monetize sharing, growth in ARM, revenue and viewing will become more important indicators of our success than membership growth.
As a reminder, we publish weekly our top titles based on hours viewed atNetflix Top 10.
Q1 Results and Q2 Forecast Our 10% revenue growth in Q1’22 was driven by an 8% year over year increase in average streaming paid memberships and 2% year over year growth in ARM2.Excluding a F/X impact of -$280 million, year over year revenue and ARM growth were +14% and +6%, respectively.
We project revenue to grow approximately 10% year over year in Q2, assuming roughly a mid-to-high single digit year over year 2ARM (Average Revenue per Membership) is defined as streaming revenue divided by the average number of streaming paid memberships divided by the number of months in the period.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively, including for consumer engagement with different modes of video entertainment; our ability to monetize sharing; impact of pricing changes; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks; impact of the coronavirus pandemic; general market, economic, political and business conditions; and timing of content releases.