January 19, 2023 Fellow shareholders, Summary: ● Q4’22 revenue, operating profit and membership growth exceeded our forecast - we continue to lead the industry in streaming engagement, revenue and profit.
● We successfully launched our new, lower priced ad-supported plan in November and are pleased with the early results, with much more still to do.
We believe we have a clear path to reaccelerate our revenue growth: continuing to improve all aspects of Netflix, launching paid sharing and building our ads offering.
I couldn’t be more excited to work alongside them as we seek to delight audiences for years to come.” For full details of Netflix leadership seehere.
3ARM(Average Revenue per Membership) is defined asstreaming revenue divided by the average number of streaming paid memberships divided by the number of months in the period.
Content and Marketing People have more choice of films and TV shows than ever so we need to ensure that there’s always something great for them to watch on Netflix, regardless of their taste, mood, or who they’re watching with.
We believe people typically sign up for a streaming service because they’ve heard about a title “you simply must watch” from a friend, seen the excitement on social media or read about it in the press.
Product and Pricing As discussed over the past few quarters, we’re working to give people more choice when it comes to price as well as greater control over their Netflix account.
In November, we successfully launched our new, lower priced ad-supported plan in 12 countries.
We believe branded television advertising is a substantial long term incremental revenue and profit opportunity for Netflix, and our ability to stand up this business in six months underscores our commitment both to give members more choice and to reaccelerate our growth.
While it’s still early days for ads and we have lots to do (in particular better targeting and measurement), we are pleased with our progress to date across every dimension: member experience, value to advertisers, and incremental contribution to our business.
Engagement, which is consistent with members on comparable ad-free plans, is better than what we had expected and we believe the lower 5 price point is driving incremental membership growth.
Overall the reaction to this launch from both consumers and advertisers has confirmed our belief that our ad-supported plan has strong unit economics (at minimum, in-line with or better than the comparable ad-free plan) and will generate incremental revenue and profit, though the impact on 2023 will be modest given that this will build slowly over time.
Today’s widespread account sharing (100M+ households) undermines our long term ability to invest in and improve Netflix, as well as build our business.
While our terms of use limit use of Netflix to a household, we recognize this is a change for members who share their account more broadly.
So we’ve worked hard to build additional new features that improve the Netflix experience, including the ability for members to review which devices are using their account and to transfer a profile to a new account.
As we roll out paid sharing, members in many countries will also have the option to pay extra if they want to share Netflix with people they don’t live with.
Beyond our direct streaming competitors, we also vie for consumers’ time against linear TV, YouTube, short form entertainment like TikTok, and gaming, to name just a few.
For example, in the more than 190 countries we operate in, our $30B+ of annual revenue compares against the combined annual estimated ~$300B pay TV/streaming industry, $180B branded TV advertising spend and $130 billion consumer spend on gaming5.
It’s not easy to build a large and profitable streaming business.
But we’re competing from a position of strength, as we lead the industry in terms of engagement, revenue and streaming profit.
As a pure-play streaming company, we’re also not anchored to shrinking legacy business models, like traditional entertainment firms, allowing us to lean hard into the big growth opportunity ahead of us.
As we’ve said before, beyond revenue and profitability, another way to look at our business is through engagement, and we are pleased to have Kantar join Nielsen – who have expanded their efforts – and BARB to publicly report on both the shift from linear to streaming as well as the viewing share of different entertainment companies in Brazil, Mexico, and Poland.
As one of the leaders in streaming across all markets, we’re encouraged by the fact that streaming overall accounts for less than 40% of viewing across these markets (and as little as 6% in Poland).
We believe ultimately the vast majority of time spent on TV will happen via streaming, which should provide a long runway for growth as we continue to improve our service.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively, including for consumer engagement with different modes of entertainment; our ability to monetize account sharing; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks; macroeconomic conditions and timing of content releases.