We are off to a fast start in fiscal 2022, with Microsoft Cloud quarterly revenue surpassing $20 billion for the first time, up 36% year over year.
Businesses – small and large – can improve productivity and the affordability of their products and services by building tech intensity.
The Microsoft Cloud delivers the end-to-end platforms and tools organizations need to navigate this time of transition and change.
Now I’ll highlight examples of our innovation and momentum, starting with Azure.
Every organization will need a distributed computing fabric across the cloud and the edge to rapidly build, manage, and deploy applications anywhere.
We are building Azure as the world’s computer, with more data center regions than any other provider, delivering faster access to cloud services, while addressing critical data residency requirements.
And with Azure Arc, customers like Nokia, Royal Bank of Canada, and SKF can deploy and run applications at the edge or in multi-cloud environments.
Organizations also prefer our cloud to power the mission critical apps they rely on every day.
GE Healthcare and Procter & Gamble migrated critical workloads to Azure this quarter.
And leading companies in every industry – including Bertelsmann, Kimberly-Clark, the NBA, SoftBank, and ThyssenKrupp – all chose Azure for their SAP workloads.
Azure Synapse brings together data integration, enterprise data warehousing, and big data analytics into a comprehensive solution.
With Synapse Link for Dataverse, organizations can analyze data from business applications like Power Platform and Dynamics 365 with just a few clicks.
More than ever, every business needs a holistic understanding of its data estate and Azure Purview, now generally available, is helping organizations, such as FedEx, manage and govern on-prem, multi-cloud, and SaaS data.
As every company becomes a digital company, they will need standardized tools to modernize existing apps and build new ones.
More and more businesses are choosing GitHub Enterprise to provide their developer teams the most advanced platform to build, ship, and maintain software.
84% of the Fortune 100 use GitHub, and we are seeing growing usage from digital-native companies and the world’s most established firms, from Pinterest to Procter & Gamble, from Stripe to Société Générale.
We are rapidly innovating in AI, and our large scale models are powering everything from meeting recaps in Teams, to helping developers code in GitHub, to “next best action” in Dynamics 365.
And as machine learning continues to mature, managing the lifecycle of models, or MLops, has become more prevalent, and Azure ML is now the go to tool for data science teams.
And, large organizations – from Ecolab to Providence Healthcare – are relying on Azure AI to better meet customer needs.
With Power Platform, we are helping domain experts drive productivity gains with low-code/no-code tools, robotic process automation, virtual agents, and business intelligence.
All-up, Power Platform now has nearly 20 million monthly active users, up 76% year over year.
Power Apps is the undisputed market leader in low code/no-code tools, now with 10 million monthly active users.
And 129 organizations have more than 10,000 users, including 3M, EY, GSK, Marks & Spencer, Sony, and ZF Group.
Dynamics 365 ushers in this hyperconnected business process era.
With Dynamics 365 and Teams, we are creating a new category of collaborative applications that help businesses like Rockwell Automation and Willis Towers Watson surface data and insights across the organization.
Our industry clouds bring together capabilities across the entire Microsoft Cloud, along with industry-specific customizations, to improve time to value, increase agility, and lower costs.
We’re seeing strong customer adoption of our new industry cloud for healthcare, and our clouds for financial services and manufacturing will become more broadly available next week.
With our Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability, we’re creating an entirely new business process category to help organizations monitor their carbon footprint across their operations.
Microsoft Teams is the only solution that supports all the ways people work.
For example, employees at Levi Strauss and NTT Data are using ServiceNow apps within Teams to access critical info within the flow of work.
Organizations are also using Power Platform to build their own rich, collaborative applications right within Teams for everything from curbside pick up to care team coordination.
All-up, the number of organizations with more than 10,000 users integrating their third-party and line-of- business apps with Teams increased 82% year-over-year.
We’re creating a complete new category with Microsoft Viva, which brings together communications, knowledge, learning, resources, and insights.
Across Microsoft 365, we are seeing growth in all segments, including triple digit year over year usage growth of Teams in frontline.
And Chevron, H&M, Lumen, and St. Jude all turned to our premium Microsoft 365 E5 offerings for advanced security, compliance, voice, and analytics.
There has been a structural shift in PC demand emerging from this pandemic.
We are providing people and organizations everywhere with the most differentiated devices for productivity, learning, and gaming – and also have a massive opportunity to create a new class of applications that take advantage of the edge and AI capabilities in Windows, coupled with cloud.
Both Amazon and Epic Games are bringing their marketplaces to the Microsoft Store.
We analyze over 24 trillion signals across email, endpoints, and identities each day, and translate this intelligence into innovative features to protect our customers.
We now have nearly 650,000 customers using our security solutions, up 50% year over year.
And businesses like HCA Healthcare and Siemens switched to our security solutions to protect their endpoints.
In identity, Azure Active Directory now has more than 500 million monthly active users, and we’ve seen usage of third-party apps increase 1.5X year over year.
Nearly 240 million users have adopted passwordless login to date, and consumers can now completely remove passwords from their personal Microsoft accounts.
This holiday season will bring our biggest line up of content and exclusive games ever, with three new AAA titles – including Halo Infinite – available via our Game Pass subscription service, which continues to offer the best value in gaming.
We’re also bringing cloud gaming to the console for the first time, enabling Xbox users to discover and stream more than 100 games with just a click.
Cloud gaming is now available in 26 countries, including as of this quarter, in Australia, Brazil, Mexico, and Japan.
Updates to Azure PlayFab make it easier for developers to integrate the creator marketplaces in games they build.
And leading publishers – from Bungie to Krafton – all rely on our cloud to scale and operate their games.
In closing, we have the most diversified set of digital businesses and we are innovating to expand our opportunity across the entire portfolio to help our customers in this new era.
Next week, we’ll hold our flagship Ignite conference, where we will share the next chapter of the Microsoft Cloud, from the metaverse, to large scale AI, from hybrid work to hybrid infrastructure.
In our commercial business, customers continued to choose the Microsoft Cloud.
We again saw healthy growth in our Azure consumption-based business and increased usage across products such as Teams and Power Platform as Satya reflected in his comments.
In our on-premises business, annuity performance in Office and Server benefited from a greater than expected mix of contracts with higher in-period revenue recognition.
Microsoft 365 subscription growth drove Office consumer results.
This quarter, growth was impacted by fewer large, long-term Azure contracts, which are unpredictable in their timing.
Microsoft cloud revenue grew 36% and 34% in constant currency to $20.7 billion, ahead of expectations.
Excluding the impact from the change in accounting estimate for the useful life of server and network equipment assets, Microsoft cloud gross margin percentage increased roughly 4 points driven by improvement in our cloud services, particularly in Azure and Office 365, partially offset by sales mix shift to Azure.
Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate discussed earlier, gross margin percentage increased roughly 1 point driven by improvements in cloud services noted earlier, partially offset by the sales mix shift to cloud.
Office 365 commercial revenue grew 23% and 21% in constant currency, driven by installed base expansion across all workloads and all customer segments, as well as higher ARPU.
Demand for our advanced security, compliance, and voice offerings drove continued momentum in E5 revenue this quarter.
Paid Office 365 commercial seats increased 17% year-over-year, driven by another strong quarter of growth in our small and medium business and frontline worker offerings.
Office consumer revenue grew 10% and 8% in constant currency on a strong prior year comparable, with better-than-expected growth in Microsoft 365 subscriptions.
Over the past two years, our Microsoft 365 subscriber base has grown over 50%, reaching 54.1 million this quarter.
Dynamics 365 revenue growth was 48% and 45% in constant currency with continued strong demand for Power Apps, which grew 202% and 197% in constant currency.
Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly 2 points driven by improvement across all cloud services.
Revenue was $17 billion, increasing 31% and 29% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, driven by continued customer demand for our differentiated hybrid and cloud offerings.
Overall, server products and cloud services revenue increased 35% and 33% in constant currency.
Azure and other cloud services grew 50% and 48% in constant currency, ahead of expectations, driven by our consumption- based services.
Strength in our annuity business was driven by healthy demand for our hybrid offerings that include Windows Server and SQL Server running in multi-cloud environments and higher in-period revenue recognition, including benefit from annuity purchasing ahead of the Windows Server 2022 launch.
These results include roughly 7 points of impact from the $210-million revenue deferral related to Windows 11 licenses sold to OEMs prior to general availability.
Windows commercial products and cloud services revenue grew 12% and 10% in constant currency driven by demand for Microsoft 365.
Xbox content and services revenue increased 2% and was relatively unchanged in constant currency against a strong prior year comparable.
Our capital investments, including both new data center regions and expansion in existing regions, continue to be based on significant customer demand and usage signals.
Longer term, we expect the Microsoft cloud gross margin percentage to be impacted by revenue mix shift to Azure, increased usage of our Microsoft cloud services, and ongoing strategic investments to support our customers’ success.
In Office commercial, revenue growth will again be driven by Office 365, with healthy seat growth across customer segments and continued momentum in E5.
In our on-premises business, we expect revenue to decline in the high-teens, consistent with the ongoing customer shift to the cloud.
In Office consumer, we expect revenue to grow in the mid-teens, with continued momentum in Microsoft 365 consumer subscriptions.
And in Dynamics, we expect revenue growth similar to Q1 driven by strength in Dynamics 365, including continued momentum in Power Apps.
For Intelligent Cloud, we expect revenue between $18.1 and $18.35 billion.
Revenue will continue to be driven by Azure which, as a reminder, can have quarterly variability primarily from our per-user business and from in- period revenue recognition depending on the mix of contracts.
In Q2, we expect healthy, broad-based growth in our Azure consumption business, consistent with recent trends.
And our per-user business, while continuing to benefit from Microsoft 365 suite momentum, should see a moderation in growth rates given the size of the installed base.
In our on- premises server business, on a higher prior year comparable, we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits, driven by continued demand for our hybrid solutions.
In More Personal Computing, we expect revenue between $16.35 and $16.75 billion.
In Windows commercial products and cloud services, customer demand for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security solutions should drive low double-digit growth.
And in Gaming, on a high prior year comparable that included the launch of our new consoles and strength across Xbox content and services, we expect revenue growth in the high single-digits.
And in Xbox content and services, we expect revenue growth in the mid-teens with strong engagement on the Xbox platform, in a holiday quarter that will include several AAA title launches.
We remain focused on growing high value usage across our differentiated Microsoft cloud offerings and delivering exciting new consumer experiences with Windows 11, Surface, and our Xbox gaming platform as we enter the holiday season.
Satya, I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the edge computing opportunity, something that you started off your remarks with, and also something that we’re hearing a lot of chatter about within the investor community and within the technology community.
SATYA NADELLA: Thank you so much, Keith, and great question, because we’ve always, as you know, Keith, architected Azure for the distributed computing fabric to remain distributed.
In other words, when we talked about hybrid computing even five years ago, the idea was always that we will always have a cloud, and then we will have a distributed cloud infrastructure for application deployment.
Whether it is what’s happening with, say, 5G and how naturally compute will go to where data is getting generated with low latency access to a factory floor, to a hospital, to cities where you want to play X cloud gaming, that’s sort of one phenomena.
The other is just literally treating every cloud, whether it’s the on-premise datacenter, it’s the other public cloud, and our public cloud, and being able to use Azure Arc and its control plane to ease the deployment across all clouds, that’s another thing that we are seeing.
When I think about what is going to be key in such a distributed world is having that full suite of application infrastructure, right, all the way from the management and security control plane, something like Azure Active Directory managing the security principles and identities, and to management control planes like Azure Arc.
And I think that the multi-cloud, multi-edge world is sort of really how we build Azure in the first place.
Yeah, I think the important thing when you think about bookings performance is to talk about what happened before you get to those volatiles from the large Azure commitments that create some of the tough comparables that we’re talking about.
And that’s really the opportunity to execute against selling the Microsoft day-to-day, right, which is Dynamics, Microsoft Cloud, GitHub and the broader universe.
And then, to your point, it’s sort of important not to time some of these larger, long dated Azure contracts.
The day-to- day execution of Azure commitments actually was very consistent.
Can you give more color on how the shift to cloud and digital offset inflationary pressure beyond purely pricing?
That’s why we are very, very excited about sort of making sure our software products are available to our business customers all around to be able to manage through this inflationary environment.
That acceleration, of course, regardless, frankly, of the overall environment is a place where we feel like we offer the best portfolio at the Microsoft Cloud and with our industry clouds to make that doable with a very fast time-to-value.
And I think that’s reflected most of the surveys that really point to preference for our cloud to help customers do that.
While, of course, it’s hard to predict what any quarter or second half will do, the things I believe to be sustainable are a push to digital, a push to clouds that help customers get value quickly, and us being a trusted advisor and partner to help that happen.
And also a little bit more of a deeper perspective on supply chain and how does Microsoft get visibility, considering that you’re growing a cloud business near capex commitments seem to be quite impressive?
How much visibility do you have into component availability and your ability to ramp up your capex?
The second side to this, though, is also to take the productivity of the people, whether they’re on the frontlines and the first line workers or the knowledge workers or even software developers, and making sure that they have the best tools, whether it’s the GitHub harness and Visual Studio Code for people who are developers, or whether it is Power Apps, or whether it is the Office 365 and then Microsoft 365 tooling to help them be most productive.
Secondly, you asked some good questions about the supply chain impact, and specifically around datacenter, given our spend this quarter, and my guidance that should be similar next.
I do think demand will exceed supply in PCs and Surface, for us, this quarter, particularly in premium devices and consoles for Xbox.
Could you speak a little bit to your – in your remarks, you talked a lot more about the hybrid cloud and how server and tools are seeing a lot of benefits from that.
What are you seeing on the client side about that dynamic in terms of people moving to the cloud and kind of workloads migrating over there, and hence, there’s less server and tools versus actually kind of that being a net benefit for you.
Every day, I wake up to talk to customers who are planning out that motion and making sure that they’re able to modernize their entire application portfolio in various ways.
The interesting thing for us, even in that context, is even in the height of our success in the client server area, we really were never a tier one company, whereas now we are in the sense that you take all the SAP workloads that are running on Azure, which I talked about, or other tier one workloads that are migrating, whether it’s HPC or transactional database workloads.
That’s where Azure Purview becomes, again, a pretty big driver of that data gravity to the cloud from a governance perspective.
When you start having your CICD to your cloud, then modern, new applications and the agility with which you build, so with GitHub, VS Code becoming essentially default for any modern dev shop in the enterprise or otherwise, that’s the other thing that we see.
With Teams, you suddenly now have a new platform in which applications get hosted, whether it’s developed by the enterprise or by third party, and I referenced that in my remarks.
And those applications in many cases get built on our cloud, use things like Azure DB, use things like Power Platform.
And so, the reinforcing and compounding side of Teams to Power Apps to Dynamics to Azure is probably one of the most unique things we are seeing in terms of new applications getting built.
And that’s where something like Azure Arc and GitHub become the two standards.
That’s the way I tend to think about it, and whether that’s a fact that people are committed to Windows and SQL Server, and whether they run that in Azure or whether they run it in a multi-cloud environment, it’s a commitment to the platform.
But as we look going forward, have you seen any early indications that customers are potentially having to slow down the pace at which they move to your commercial cloud?
But the thing at least about the software businesses are, in order to deal with a lot of other constraints, whether they are labor shortages or supply shortages, deploying digital tech is one way to sort of really overcome them.
And so, when you talk about adding productivity, it’s also an investment we, at Microsoft, need to make into making our products easier and really terrific to get going on, so that you’re not constrained in the ways that you’re talking about.
Satya, I wanted to ask about comments you made earlier in the call around investments coming and new releases coming for some of the industry clouds’ financial services manufacturing.
Should we think of the Azure business results kind of driven increasingly by these industry cloud type solutions away from horizontal type projects, like ERP, database?
Absolutely, we think of the Microsoft Cloud, which includes Azure, it includes Dynamics 365, it includes Microsoft 365, it includes things like Power Platform, it includes even GitHub and VS Code, that’s why we keep stressing the full modern tech stack that makes up Microsoft Cloud.
And then with the industry cloud, we add value on top of that, which is specific, whether it’s in retail, whether it’s manufacturing, obviously in healthcare.
It’s the coming together of the Microsoft Cloud, and then the industry cloud adds further value on top of it.