Excluding the impact of our exit from Russia, subscriber growth exceeded expectations as well.
First Quarter 2022 Earnings Highlights ● MAUs grew 19% Y/Y to 422 million or 419 million excluding a one-time benefit of 3 million MAUs ● Premium Subscribers grew 15% Y/Y to 182 million (inclusive of approximately 1.5 million disconnects from the wind-down of our Russian operations) ● Premium ARPU grew 6% Y/Y in Q1 and 3% Y/Y on a constant currency basis ● Gross Margin finished at 25.2% ● Announced agreement with Google for User Choice Billing and a long-term partnership agreement with FC Barcelona Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 1 MONTHLY ACTIVE USERS (“MAUs”) Total MAUs grew 19% Y/Y to 422 million in the quarter, up from 406 million last quarter and above our guidance by 4 million.
During March, there was a brief service outage that caused users to be involuntarily logged out of Spotify.
MAU growth was particularly strong in our Gen Z audience, fueled by successful product feature launches such as our Lyrics experience, as well as marketing and content initiatives.
Total MAUs by Region PREMIUM SUBSCRIBERS Our Premium Subscribers grew 15% Y/Y to 182 million in the quarter, up from 180 million last quarter.
While this is slightly below our guidance, after excluding the involuntary churn of approximately 1.5 million subscribers as a result of our exit from Russia, growth was above expectations and aided by outperformance in Latin America and Europe.
During Q1, we entered into a multiyear agreement with Google for User Choice Billing, bringing our Android users greater flexibility in payment choice and enabling a frictionless user Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 2 experience for all in-app transactions.
We also announced a promotional partnership with Walmart (offering 6 month trials to Walmart+ members in the United States) and a data access program with Airtel (whereby Airtel is offering all Spotify customers complimentary connectivity to Spotify in Nigeria).
Premium Subscribers by Region FINANCIAL METRICS Revenue Revenue of €2,661 million grew 24% Y/Y in Q1 (or 19% Y/Y on a constant currency basis) and was above our guidance.
We achieved our largest Q1 ever for Ad-Supported Revenue (11% of Total Revenue) and saw strong Y/Y growth across all regions and channels.
Music Ad-Supported Revenue benefited from a Y/Y increase in impressions and healthy double-digit growth in CPMs.
Podcast revenue strength was led by the Spotify Audience Network along with continued growth across existing Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 3 Spotify studios and our exclusive licensing deals.
CTA cards make podcast ads interactive for the first time and allow listeners to directly discover products and services of interest without having to remember promo codes.
During the quarter, we announced the acquisition of Podsights, a leading podcast advertising measurement service that helps advertisers better measure and scale their podcast advertising.
Additionally, we acquired Chartable, a podcast analytics platform that enables publishers to know and grow their podcast audiences through promotional attribution and audience insight tools.
The Y/Y Gross Margin trend reflected a favorable revenue mix shift towards podcasts and growing marketplace activity, which was offset by increased non-music content spend, investments in music product enhancements, and modestly higher Other Cost of Revenue.
As a reminder, all content costs related to podcast investment are included in the Ad-Supported business for the current and historical periods.
Spotify Technology S.A. 42-44 avenue de la Gare, LU-1610 Luxembourg 4 PRODUCT AND PLATFORM UPDATES Two-Sided Marketplace In Q1, we increased the number of artists and labels who can create Sponsored Recommendations by rolling out our self-serve campaign management tool to all eligible artists in the United States.
Additionally, we rolled out Spotify for Artists in 9 additional languages (bringing total supported languages to 26) and published the latest 2021 data reflecting our contribution to music industry economics on our Loud & Clear website.
Podcasting At the end of Q1, we had 4.0 million podcasts on the platform (up from 3.6 million at the end of Q4).
Growth in the number of MAUs that engaged with podcast content continued to outstrip total MAU growth, podcast consumption rates grew in the double digits Y/Y, and podcast share of overall consumption hours on our platform reached another all-time high.
We saw a double- digit Y/Y increase in new podcasts across key growth markets in Latin America and Rest of World, with more than 85% of new podcast creation occuring on our Anchor platform.
Additionally, new or existing Porsche vehicles with the Porsche Communication Management 6.0 Infotainment system will now be able stream Spotify as an audio source.
Global Marketing Partnerships On March 15th, we announced a long-term partnership with FC Barcelona whereby Spotify will become a Main Partner of the Club and its Official Audio Streaming Partner.
This partnership will allow Spotify to amplify artist voices, connect artists to new and existing fans, and help grow our global user base across key growth markets and audience segments.
These expectations reflect the full closure of Spotify’s services in Russia, which was completed on April 11, 2022.
Daniel Ek, our Founder and CEO, and Paul Vogel, our Chief Financial Officer, will be on hand to answer questions submitted through slido.com using the event code #SpotifyEarningsQ122.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: Direct Event Registration Portal: https://conferencingportals.com/event/txExvogt We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.