Page 2 Q3 FY22 Earnings Conference Call August 11, 2022 And significant subscriber growth at our streaming services, which added 15.5 million subscriptions in the quarter.
Including 14.4 million Disney+ subscribers, of which 6 million were core Disney+ and 8 million were Hotstar.
As of the close of Q3, we now have 221 million total subscriptions across our streaming offerings.
Page 3 Q3 FY22 Earnings Conference Call August 11, 2022 In addition to critical and industry recognition, we are thrilled by the audience response to our general entertainment offerings—response that is enhanced by a distribution strategy that maximizes reach by taking advantage of the strength of both our linear and streaming channels.
Given the multiple ways we bring our content to audiences, we take a thoughtful approach to each distribution decision to determine the best strategy for each of our many high-quality titles and platforms.
Others, like Abbott Elementary and The Old Man, have become multi-platform hits by reaching different audience demographics across both linear and streaming.
Speaking of Disney+—which is now available in 155 markets after recently launching in 53 new territories—we released content with appeal across demographic groups, including Obi-Wan Kenobi and Ms. Marvel.
For example, in addition to driving engagement amongst tens of millions of existing Marvel fans, we have seen each new Disney+ Original Marvel series attract incremental viewership and new subscribers that hadn’t previously engaged with Marvel content on the service, thanks to the episodic format that enables us to explore new characters and genres.
And this new audience can then experience Marvel across our other offerings, from consumer products, to games, to theme parks.
We are excited to continue offering IPL to our linear customers in India, where growth potential exists for our portfolio of more than 70 channels that reaches 90% of pay cable and satellite TV homes in the region.
Pay TV distribution in India continues to be a robust business, with projected GDP growth expected to drive advertising and consumer spending.
Since the launch of Disney+, advertisers have been asking for the opportunity to connect with audiences alongside the most premium brands and content in streaming.
Growth at Cable was largely driven by higher advertising revenue, and to a lesser extent a decrease in marketing costs and an increase in affiliate revenue.
This was driven by 6 points of growth from higher rates, partially offset by a 3-point decrease from fewer subscribers.
At Direct-to-Consumer, lower operating results across Disney+, Hulu and ESPN+ reflect increased programming and production costs – in line with the guidance we gave last quarter – as we continue to strategically invest in our streaming businesses.
At Disney+, we crossed the 150 million subscriber milestone, and ended the third quarter with more than 152 million global paid subscribers – a net addition of more than 14 million subs versus Q2.
Page 11 Q3 FY22 Earnings Conference Call August 11, 2022 Strong Disney+ core net subscriber additions of 6 million reflect growth in existing markets as well as launches in over 50 new markets during the quarter.
At Disney+ Hotstar, subscribers increased by over 8 million as the IPL concluded its fifteenth season in the quarter.
Hulu added more than 600 thousand subs during the quarter, and ended the third quarter with 46.2 million paid subscribers.
And ESPN+ ended Q3 with 22.8 million paid subscribers, a net increase of about a half a million versus Q2.
As we continue to scale back on third party content licensing, we believe Content Sales, Licensing and Other results will continue to face headwinds.
We are providing more detail on subscriber targets by separating our guidance into two categories: core Disney+, and Disney+ Hotstar.
Excluding the impact of any significant future macro headwinds, our core Disney+ subscriber target range is 135 million to 165 million by the end of fiscal 2024 – largely consistent with previously provided guidance that non-Hotstar Disney+ subscribers in 2024 would approximate 60%-70% of the expected 230 to 260 million total subscriber base.
We are, however, updating subscriber guidance for Disney+ Hotstar, to up to 80 million subscribers by the end of fiscal 2024.
And look forward to several upcoming catalysts including: reaching a steady state of tentpole original content releases, delivery of premium general entertainment and international local originals, and the upcoming launch of our ad supported tier, alongside the new pricing structure announced earlier today.
Ben Swinburne – Morgan Stanley Bob, can you talk a little bit about sort of the research and insight you have into your streaming customer base that sort of informs the decision to take these price increases – which on a percentage basis are pretty large – without really reducing net adds with – from churn spiking as you implement these price increases?
I think it was easy to say that we're probably the best value in streaming.
And maybe what you've learned from Hulu over the years that informs your expectations on monetization.
But the Hulu ad-supported tier has more subscribers than the ad-free.
We're working hard on it, and we hope to have something to announce in the future in terms of a partnership there that will allow us to access that revenue stream, and also make sure that our guests are being – having their needs met.
Do you really have to own ESPN, or get into sports streaming in a much bigger way or invest a lot more?
From a subscriber base perspective, Disney+ is comparable domestically to Hulu.
But I just want to start off by saying pacing in our scatter market continues to be solid across streaming, sports, as well as our broadcast network.
Meaning we're launching with a lower ad load, and a lower frequency than say, Hulu.
As it relates to higher costs of content and programming.
The first is would you expect to potentially display ads alongside any of the content?
Page 28 Q3 FY22 Earnings Conference Call August 11, 2022 And I'm just curious, as you think about the experience you've had in streaming advertising.
Are you mostly going to look to leverage the formats you've used very successfully with Hulu?
Therefore, we could have an ad proposition as good as the one that we've had on Hulu, but it could actually be better because of that different technology platform.