And when I think of the evolution, the three of us and so many other incredible Netflix employees to go from DVD service to streaming leader in films and television and emerging player in games.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 5 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2022 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 19, 2023 to help us to move fast to challenge each other, to challenge the company to raise to new heights.
Netflix is now one of the most dominant global media companies, if not the dominant.
Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO, Chief Content Officer & Director Well, the one thing I'd point out is that what's happening now and what's going to be happening over the next couple of years is that the consumer is moving to streaming.
So the way that they watch content at home delivered to them on Internet on demand, free of the linear schedule and all those things, that is a change, a fundamental shift in the business, and you've got to be where the consumer is.
And that's what we've been focused on since we started streaming, doing original content 10 years ago, but being really realizing that we really have benefited from being a customer-first company and meeting the customers where they are.
So that's the key for us, and I think being able to focus on consumers first.
It will take a while for Disney to build ESPN Plus into a sports streaming giant.
And if you look at where we're at, a significant part of what we need to go do is essentially take the core model that we've been operating since we've been starting in streaming and just execute it better in all dimensions.
And so whether it's the incredible content that Bella and Scott's team are producing constantly, how we're talking about that content to the marketing and conversation that we do, the product experiences and business model innovations that we're doing.
When the content is working, the business is working.
With ESPN and the example you gave, that was a fundamental kind of shift in the industry from 100- plus million pay TV connected homes to cord cutting that's on a path down to mid- to high single-digit reductions in that distribution platform each year, and that's moving in that direction.
So it's kind of a shrinking core distribution platform, where when you see in our earnings letter, the world is shifting from linear to streaming.
Even in the largest -- there is no country where streaming is more than 40% of share of TV time.
And what you saw or what we saw and felt when we had that decline in subscribers was really near-term limiters in growing into that big market.
But the big market is still growing as opposed to fundamentally long-term limiters in that ESPN shift that you described.
The product experience is good, and that's really a testament to lots of hard work for both Microsoft and Netflix teams who worked very hard to make that happen, and it's really rewarding to that to see.
The other, I'd say, pretty significantly fundamental thing is around engagement, and we see that engagement from ads plans users is comparable to sort of similar users on our non-ads plan.
Furthermore, now, we're seeing take rate and growth on that ads plan is solid.
It's great because partly, that take rate and that growth is due to incremental subscribers coming into the service because we have a lower price point.
It means that we've got a complementary set of offerings that are working to sort of satisfy different needs for different consumers at the right mix of features and price points.
We aren't seeing as expected much switching from high arm subscription plans like premium into our ads plan.
So there's a bunch of technical improvements terms of ad delivery validation, measurement.
Targeting improvements, which will be better for consumers.
More relevant advertising, better for advertisers in terms of more value delivered, a better set of offerings on products for advertisers to buy.
We've got a long list of experience improvements that we know we can deliver that will live more value to both subscribers and advertisers.
There's so much that we need to do both companies need to better serve advertisers sort of an increasing number of advertisers and meet that demand.
And really, our aspirations are ultimately successively over a period of years to basically build, just like we have essentially in terms of the streaming experience, the best, most effective, highest quality premium connected TV ads experience as a win for consumers and advertisers and for us as a business.
Spence, maybe give a little context on Hulu, kind of what we know about Hulu's advertising.
I mean Hulu is -- yes, they've had a long head start, they started in the ads business.
They have -- we would estimate, reason we obviously don't know exactly, but roughly half of their membership is on the ads tier.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2022 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 19, 2023 So I guess the short story there is we have given what we've seen and what Greg just outlined in terms of the engagement on our ad plan, the strength of the performance in terms of the monetization, kind of the unit economics and our ability to kind of scale in a way that is even better than the kind of comparable ad free plan, plus providing clearly choice that our members or consumers are seeking out because of the sign-up flow that we would expect to be as large or larger over time, certainly in just our U.S. market and more from there.
So we're not going to be larger than Hulu in year 1.
Given this is a prime spot on a critical week for advertisers in premium video.
And also, we're also starting from a history where as a non-ads platform, we had a lot of folks to basically join Netflix fully as non-ad subscribers, and so I think that we'll be working through that over a period of time.
I would say that initially, we're competing mostly with that sort of traditional TV advertising pool.
Now I think we can layer into that over time, components of what has made digital advertising so effective.
And so that lends itself to certain kinds of advertising and certain kind of advertising goal.
And a lot of the demand collection component that a Google or a Facebook is really good at.
No, it's an enormous opportunity, but there's also, besides advertising, there's enormous opportunity in incremental subscribers, as you have mentioned.
You are the lowest priced service, at least now you are the lowest price, but can you frame the opportunity in terms of sub growth and how you're thinking about it?
And so then you think about so there's sort of two pools of incremental subscribers.
A component of that is we've got folks that are watching Netflix who aren't paying us as part of basically borrowing somebody else's credentials.
And our goal is over this year to basically work through that situation and convert many of those folks to be paid accounts or to have the account owner pay for them to get enough subscription.
But either way, we're seeking to sort of monetize the viewing value that we're delivering.
Any thoughts on offering a fast service over time, readvertising supported television?
Look, we're open to all these different models that are out there right now, but we've got a lot on our plate this year, both with the paid sharing and with our launch of advertising and continuing to this slate of content that we're trying to drive to our members.
And obviously, the ad- supported plans give us the opportunity present a lower consumer face pricing in those countries where we have advertising.
But then generally, what happens is both from the specific changes that we make, we'll see folks come on as new subscribers, essentially borrowers creating their accounts or incremental monetization through the extra member that will happen shortly thereafter.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 12 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2022 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 19, 2023 just walked through, because of that as we kind of start to roll this out later in Q1, based on the timing, what we talked about is that we'll have modest growth we expect in paid net adds in Q1, but kind of atypical seasonality, where typically Q2 would be a softer paid net add quarter.
And what you see is in the guide, these revenue initiatives between paid sharing rolling out and then scaling ads, you don't see much of that in Q1, which is why we're forecasting 80% growth, FX neutral in Q1 revenue.
Now having said that, our core sort of pricing approach in theory remains the same, and so we're going to look at the metrics that our members are giving us and telling us and look for opportunities where we've -- I think we've done a good job of creating more value for them and for a certain customer segment and a certain tier and a certain country, we think we've done a good job at delivering more entertainment for them.
Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO, Chief Content Officer & Director No, I would just say that it's the must-seeness of the content that will make the paid sharing initiative work.
It's -- that will make the advertising launch work that will make continuing to grow revenue work.
It's the content that people must see and then it's on Netflix gives us the ability to do that.
So I think in that way, working with a great partner and the high quality, to your point, of the content itself, will put it in a really good test, do people want to use Netflix to get in shape or to get back in shape.
So how do you balance the investment in live versus the potential to drive advertising dollars?
Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO, Chief Content Officer & Director I would look at this as part of just like other crawl/walk/run scenarios, where we are really looking at our content that would benefit creatively for being live.
And that demand, we fulfilled on our subscription service.
Our owned content, we do drive a lot of revenue in our consumer products business.
Those content teams generate not just content people want to see, but content that's leading the industry.
And keep in mind that these investments are important because it actually increases the total addressable audience for Netflix around the world.
I also just want to highlight there is also kind of short-term unusual amount of less visibility than typical because the things we're talking about in terms of our revenue initiatives, whether it's scaling our ad platform, launching paid sharing, which globally rolled out yet, these things are early days.
And really what's reflected in there is that this -- we have high confidence in our ability to accelerate revenue throughout the course of the year as we scale ads and we launch paid sharing.
We've got high confidence in improving the service and the strength of our content slate with everything that Ted discussed here on the call, and we're also continuing to manage our cost structure with increasing discipline.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 18 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2022 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 19, 2023 Copyright © 2023 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.