And our streaming services ended Q1 with 196.4 million total subscriptions after adding 17.4 million in the quarter – including 11.8 million Disney+ subscribers.
We have a portfolio of distribution platforms – including powerful and growing streaming services.
We have diverse revenue streams that span business models and industries – but which are all interconnected to create entertainment’s most powerful synergy machine.
However, it’s often lost that the depth, breadth, and quality of our General Entertainment content is also a driving force behind the success of our streaming services.
And, General Entertainment is an increasingly powerful driver of engagement in most of our international markets, where such content is already included in our service under the Star Brand.
Going forward, integrating more owned general entertainment into our services – especially Disney+ – will be a priority.
Turning to our Distribution results, the continued growth of our streaming services was certainly a standout.
Our success at Disney+ this quarter was not the result of any one item, but instead a combination of organic growth and powerful new content, our strategic decision to include the Disney Bundle with all Hulu Live subscriptions, and new market launches.
That said, audiences will be our North Star as we determine how our content is distributed.
We are more confident than ever in this platform as a content service, a franchise engine, and as a venue for the next generation of Disney storytelling.
Revenue growth in the quarter was primarily driven by increased subscription fees from our direct-to-consumer services.
We also delivered record advertising revenues for the segment, as we continued to see strong advertiser demand for our live sports and streaming and digital businesses.
At Cable, the year-over-year decrease in operating income reflected higher programming and production costs, and increased marketing spend, partially offset by increases in advertising and affiliate revenue.
This was primarily driven by 6 points of growth from higher rates, offset by a 4-point decline due to a decrease in subscribers.
Taking a look at subscriber growth by region… We added 4.1 million paid domestic Disney+ subscribers, including a benefit of approximately 2 million incremental subscribers from our strategic decision to include Disney+ and ESPN+ as part of a Hulu Live subscription.
In international markets excluding Disney+ Hotstar, we added 5.1 million paid subscribers, primarily driven by growth in Asia-Pacific and European markets.
Finally, we were able to resume growth in Disney+ Hotstar markets, with 2.6 million paid subscriber additions in the quarter.
Overall, we are pleased with Disney+ subscriber growth in the quarter, and are looking forward to new market launches and a strong content slate later this year.
And at Hulu, higher subscription revenues versus the prior year were partially offset by higher programming and production costs driven by increased affiliate fees for Live TV.
Hulu ended the first quarter with 45.3 million paid subscribers inclusive of 4.3 million subscribers to our Hulu Live digital MVPD service.
Second, at Content Sales, Licensing, and Other a difficult Q2 comparison to prior year TV and SVOD program sales is due in part to our strategic decision to hold more of our owned and produced content for our direct-to-consumer services.
You guys have gotten to, I think, almost, probably more than 1/3 penetrated of total broadband homes.
We still have some headroom in each one of our major franchises in terms of those viewers, those fans, that have expressed interest in subscribing.
And by the way, we just created a new organization within our company to shepherd the development of that content so that we can maximize the chance that we get some global hits, if you will, out of some of that local content.
So Christine, from a guidance perspective, I guess the other variable is just a breakeven guidance in 2024 for the streaming service.
So while the IPL obviously, is an important part of the Disney+ Hotstar content offering, it's really one component of a broader portfolio of entertainment and sports.
In addition to, obviously, the original content and the library content from Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and Nat Geo, our Disney+ Hotstar offering does have a massive collection of local content, and we add over 18,000 hours of original programming every year.
And what are the key things that influence that in terms of timing, when you bring new content on distribution partners or anything else we should be thinking about as we model out ARPU?
So we think that the combination of those things plus our ability to migrate our customers from our linear channels to their digital channels really gives us reason to be fairly bullish in Latin America right now.
Not all on Disney+, some of that's for Hulu as well.
You guys cited the lower per subscriber ad revenue.
I know there's been some talk of some content that may be coming off the service.
But in terms of sort of the self-management capacity, one of the last things to come back for us, in a post-COVID world – what we hope is a post-COVID world, is actually live entertainment because much of the live entertainment is close proximity.
Let me just start with advertiser demand because I think this is an important concept.
And we're hoping for those to once again convert to full pay subscribers.