Our challenge and opportunity is to accelerate our revenue and membership growth by continuing to improve our product, content, and marketing as we’ve done for the last 25 years, and to better monetize our big audience.
Content, Marketing, and Product Last quarter, we discussed our slowing revenue growth, which we believe is the result of connected TV adoption, account sharing, competition, and macro factors such as sluggish economic growth and the impacts of the war in Ukraine.
First and foremost, we need to continue to improve all aspects of Netflix.
It’s why we strive for an ever better content, marketing and product experience.
Also as a pure play streaming business, we’re unencumbered by legacy revenue streams.
This freedom means we can offer big movies direct-to-Netflix, without the need for extended or exclusive theatrical windows, and let members binge watch TV if they want, without having to wait for a new episode to drop each week.
Our content offering is designed to satisfy a broad range of member tastes by providing an unmatched variety and quality of titles.
When we deliver shows and movies that members are talking about in large numbers, we can influence pop culture, build passion for Netflix and create an experience that is differentiated and difficult-to-replicate.
We publish weekly our top titles based on hours viewed atNetflix Top 10.
We want Netflix to be relevant to audiences all over the globe and our local language titles are a differentiator for us.
For instance, in the US, which is one of the most competitive markets in the world, we drewmore TVviewing time than any other outletduring the 2021-22 TV season (see chart below), nearly matching the combined total of the two most watched broadcast networks.
And, as Nielsen will announce on Thursday, our share of US TV viewing reached an all-time high of 7.7% in June (vs. 6.6% in June 2021), demonstrating our ability to grow our engagement share as we continue to improve our service.
We’vehad millions of our members play games through the service and we are learning about what games work for different audiences.
In the early days of streaming, we kept our pricing very simple with just one plan level.
In 2014, we introduced three price tiers to better segment demand.
Going forward, we will focus on better monetizing usage through both continued optimization of our pricing and tiering structures as well as the addition of a new, lower-priced ad-supported tier.
Advertising Our lower priced advertising-supported offering will complementour existing plans, which will remain ad-free.
We recentlyannouncedMicrosoft as our technologyand sales partner and we’re targeting to launch this tier around the early part of 2023.
They are investing heavily to expand their multi-billion advertising business into premium television video, and we are thrilled to be working with such a strong global partner.
We’re excited by the opportunity given the combination of our very engaged audience and high quality content, which we think will attract premium CPMs from brand advertisers.
Over time, our hope is to create a better-than-linear-TV advertisement model that’s more seamless and relevant for consumers, and more effective for our advertising partners.
While it will take some time to grow our member base for the ad tier and the associated ad revenues, over the long run, we think advertising can enable substantial incremental membership (through lower prices) and profit growth (through ad revenues).
Paid Sharing We’re in the early stages of working to monetize the 100m+ households that are currently enjoying, but not directly paying for, Netflix.
Our goal is to find an easy-to-use paid sharing offering that we believe works for our members and our business that we can roll out in 2023.
These initiatives - paid sharing and advertising - do introduce some additional complexity, but our approach has always been tokeep our business model as simple as possible within the context of our growth objectives.
In this vein, these initiatives are similar to expanding into originals, launching our service across the world, and building our own studio, each of which also increased complexity but are natural extensions intended to enhance our existing business.
We’re now more than a decade into transforming our service from licensed second run content to mostly Netflix originals - including more than five years into building out our internal studio to produce the majority of our original titles (60% of our net content assets on our balance sheet are Netflix-produced).
With more than one billion people living with some form of disability, we want to ensure Netflix is as accessible as possible.
We’re fortunate to be in a position of strength as the leader in streaming entertainment by all metrics (revenue, engagement, subscribers, profit and free cash flow).
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively, including for consumer engagement with different modes of video entertainment; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks; impact of the coronavirus pandemic; and timing of content releases.