So on the 2 parts, we're working on how to monetize sharing.
But the long-term addressable market, we believe, is unchanged in terms of all broadband households.
And then talk to us about how that informs your 2Q guide for a loss of 2 million subscribers.
It's a bunch of enabling factors, like broadband and smart TVs.
And then in some countries that we're operating in, where we've been operating the longest, like the U.S. is a great example, we have really significant high penetration of viewers into that near-term market potential.
And then there is a group of viewers that are not paying us, and they're sharing someone else's account credential.
And so now, our job is really to better translate that viewing and the value that those consumers are getting into revenue.
And the principal way we've got of going after that is asking our members to pay a bit more to share the service with folks outside their home.
We're not trying to shut down that sharing, but we're going to ask you to pay a bit more to be able to share with her and so that she gets the benefit and the value of the service, but we also get the revenue associated with that viewing.
I mean first, it's important to note that we're trying to find a balanced approach here, and we're trying to basically come up with a model that supports a customer-centric approach.
It still puts members in charge, it supports member choice, that delivers great entertainment value and sort of all of the options that we've got.
But also, very importantly, allows us to bring in revenue for everyone who's viewing and Copyright © 2022 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
And then obviously, we're doing that so that we can invest then into more great content and a better service for everyone.
And how do you think about the uplift, whether more of it would come from ARM or from subscribers over time?
What are the ways that you can influence acquisition beyond account sharing, which we talked about, and then beyond, of course, just creating great content?
Honestly, we've got to compete and we've got to make -- continue to improve on the core service, which -- right, which is making TV series and films and now, games that people really love.
Now we've talked about being highly penetrated in some of those core markets with users, which means that it's harder to get them to join Netflix if they're already using Netflix.
So we got to figure out these different models that we're doing now to more effectively monetize that viewing.
So we're definitely feeling the higher levels of penetration in those markets of users, and we're definitely feeling a heightened level of competition for sure.
But I would also say it's -- we're also working hard to ensure that we have a range of price points across a set of plans with different features that deliver on different consumer needs and consumer desires, while making sure and be very focused that we retain good accessibility to the service for a broad group of people in every country we serve at sort of that entry level.
And those who have followed Netflix know that I've been against the complexity of advertising and a big fan of the simplicity of subscription.
And allowing consumers who would like to have a lower price and are advertising-tolerant get what they want makes a lot of sense.
And again, we're seeking ways to actually take that spread even wider, and that's why I think ads is an exciting opportunity for us that we want to explore more.
So let's shift to ads... Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO, Chief Content Officer & Director And Doug, I would just add that that's just directly related to creating the content that people find to be incredibly valuable.
If people love film and TV and games content and if we can continue to deliver that value, deliver that engagement, there's a long history of people being willing to pay for it and as Reed said, also advertisers trying to reach those audiences.
But I think you've also kind of talked a little bit about, at least in the past, perhaps not seeing the incremental profit potential as well in terms of the lower-priced ad-supported tier.
And I guess, if you were to pursue an ad-based model on the lower tier, how long would it take you to get there and kind of roll that out?
And in terms of the profit potential, definitely, the online ad market has advanced.
So we can be a straight publisher and have other people do all of the fancy ad-matching and integrate all the data about people.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 10 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2022 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | APR 19, 2022 stay out of that and really be focused on our members creating that great experience and then again, getting monetized in a first-class way by a range of different companies who offer that service.
Wilmot Reed Hastings Co-Founder, Chairman, President & Co-CEO We're probably not that advanced, but no, I think it's pretty clear that it's working for Hulu.
But again, it would be a plan layer, like it is at Hulu.
So if you still want the ad-free option, you'll be able to have that as a consumer.
I guess as streaming proliferates, it feels like there's this increasing debate around the value and stickiness of providing a full season of content all at once.
And our -- we will continue to grow the content spend relative to prior years.
Douglas Till Anmuth JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division So just to clarify, only because you've been saying it for many years now, the 300 basis points kind of per year over a multiyear period, obviously, we were not going to see that this year, but it sounds like over the next couple of years, you're thinking more flattish until you get subscribers really growing in a bigger way.
We talked about things like perhaps adding an advertising layer and obviously continuing to improve the service, grow engagement, grow revenue.
And what are you seeing in terms of maybe early behavior from some of those incremental subscribers?
I would say, to your last point, the incremental subscribers are largely behaving similar to the subscribers we've added over the last 12 months.
And so we've seen that effect definitely take hold where we have an additional bump in subscribers that will now get to see that content.
The product fit incorporates subscription prices as well and willingness and ability to pay.
And in the long term, you've got things like smart TV sales and a bunch Copyright © 2022 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
For us, I look at games as a great example of adding something brand-new to the service, something new for our members to enjoy.
Why -- we're not quite so sure that you can add the big profit stream by adding sports.
We lead by a significant margin in streaming, and streaming is continuing to grow around the world.
And all of the players who compete with us today have been competing with us since our first day of streaming, some head-to-head and some through their legacy business models, and they're now migrating to be more head-to-head players while they're struggling to manage their legacy businesses.
And I want to just assure everybody that everyone at Netflix shares that excitement, to come out on the other side of this part of the business.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 17 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2022 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | APR 19, 2022 Copyright © 2022 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.