In addition, our global subscribers growth exceeded expectations by 1 million, while revenue was in line.
Looking further ahead, recession or not, my confidence in our business and the unique “Spotify Machine” that we are building is unwavering.
For those needing a refresher, we believe the Spotify Machine is what differentiates us from other tech platforms – it leverages one consumer experience, powered by three revenue generating business models – subscriptions, ads and Marketplace.
And as I detailed last month, we are confident in our ambitions to get to one billion users by 2030 while at the same time, we are also focused on improving our gross margins and continuing to generate positive free cash flow.
Not only will this investment benefit Spotify and its shareholders, but it also creates tremendous upside for listeners, artists, songwriters, creators and advertisers.
Total monthly active users grew to 433 million in Q2.
Moving to premium, we finished the quarter with 188 million subscribers – 1 million ahead of guidance – thanks in part to broad-based strength across regions, particularly in Europe and Latin America, where upside was helped by an extra week of promotional activity and traction in our multi-user products like Family Plan and Duo.
As we discussed during our recent Investor Day, much of the operating expense growth we saw in Q2 was the result of decisions we made toward the end of 2021 mainly to expand our global sales team, invest in our platform, and increase marketing to drive user growth.
Specifically, we expect to see another quarter of accelerating MAU net adds and expect subscriber net additions similar to Q3 of last year.
Our gross margin outlook of 25.2% for Q3, is in-line with our full-year commentary and reflects our expectation for continued core operating improvement across our music and podcasting businesses, offset by select growth initiatives.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ222.
I look forward to the rest of the year and for more detail, check out our For The Record podcast.