More information is available at investor.apple.com/esg.
Additionally, the policy stipulates that Apple maintains active communication channels with rightsholders and other stakeholders.
At the onset of the COVID-19 global pandemic, Apple management activated company-wide structures to assess, respond to, and mitigate adverse impacts, including enhanced health and safety measures for our people and the people in our supply chain.
These reports include updates from Apple’s Senior Vice President, Operations, on supply constraints, supply chain diversification, and our program to oversee Apple’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Responsibility Standards.
These reports include the alignment of the program with Apple’s potential antitrust risks, and the effectiveness of the program’s design in detecting and preventing antitrust issues and promoting compliance with laws and Apple’s policies.
These reports include the program’s support and validation of Apple’s principles of conducting business ethically, honestly, and in compliance with applicable laws; the effectiveness of the program’s design in detecting and preventing business conduct violations, and promoting ethical business conduct and compliance with applicable laws and Apple policies; as well as results of program evaluations.
These reports include updates on Apple’s privacy program, cybersecurity risks, risk management, and relevant legislative, regulatory, and technical developments.
Apple has an equipment program for the Board under which each Non-Employee Director is eligible to receive, upon request and free of charge, one of each new product introduced by Apple, and is eligible to purchase additional equipment at a discount.
As the leader of Apple’s retail and online teams, Deirdre supports their work to enrich the lives of millions of Apple customers every year.
A primary peer group was developed for reference consisting of U.S.-based, stand-alone, publicly traded companies in the technology, media, and internet services industries that, in the Compensation Committee’s view, compete with Apple for talent.
By adopting specific social purposes our stakeholders will know Apple’s values are built into Apple’s very reason for existing.
A commitment to all of our stakeholders lies at the heart (ii) a majority of the shares of Apple’s long-standing values of accessibility, education, environment, required to constitute a quorum.
Our proven record and unwavering commitment to our stakeholders, our communities and our values demonstrate that Apple in its current corporate form is able to consider the interests of a wide range of stakeholders, including our customers, communities, and the environment we all share, while seeking to deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
This poses significant legal, reputational, and financial risk to Apple and its shareholders.
6 Apple makes products that unleash creativity, that enable communication and sharing across borders, and that open pathways to innovation, collaboration, Vote Required and entrepreneurship.
Apple describes the kinds of content on the apps that governments in each country or region sought to remove.
All apps worldwide are screened for quality and illegal or harmful content.
Apple does not “proactively censor” apps, as suggested in the proposal, but rather abides by the laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates, as all companies operating in such jurisdictions must do.
Reports suggest that Apple severed ties with Ofilm Group over allegations that it’s involved in that program.
Apple already fulfills the report’s objectives through our comprehensive approach to pay equity and representation, robust Approval of Proposal No.
From day one, Apple employees have access to our career development programs, ongoing inclusion and diversity education, and support throughout their career journey.
However, given the maturity and robust quality of our internal processes and programs, our demonstrated progress and proven commitment to pay equity, and active Board oversight, we believe our current framework is more appropriate for Apple at this time.
Apple lists diversity, inclusion, and accessibility among its key values.
Civil rights issues raised by Apple’s products and services are also concerning.
These reports include updates on Apple’s privacy program, cybersecurity risks, risk management, and relevant legislative, regulatory, and technical developments.2 We want everyone—from our customers to our industry peers—to know about our values, and the progress we’re making.
As a sign of our commitment, Apple is a founding signatory to the ACT Report: Action to Catalyze Tech, A Paradigm Shift for DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion),6 which provides tech companies and leaders a rigorous framework of action.
Apple is strengthening our long-standing commitment to making our company more inclusive and diverse, and we’re making progress towards these goals.
They also help us think about ways we can uniquely contribute to Apple’s products.
Apple’s advertising platform does not track users; it does not link user or device data collected from our apps with user or device data collected from third parties for targeted advertising or advertising measurement purposes.
We do not share any personally identifiable information with third parties, and no Apple Pay transactions or Health app data is accessible to Apple’s advertising platform, or is used for advertising purposes.
We also expect our suppliers, contractors, consultants, and other business partners to follow our principles when providing goods and services to Apple or acting on Apple’s behalf.
Apple strives to provide a workplace free of harassment and discrimination, and we offer a range of additional resources for employees to address questions and report concerns, including People Support, the Business Conduct Helpline and the Business Conduct website, as well as an external reporting hotline.
Apple is soliciting proxies for use at the Annual Meeting, including any postponements or adjournments.
Proxy Materials are Available on the Internet Apple uses the internet as the primary means of furnishing proxy materials to shareholders.
We encourage shareholders to take advantage of the availability of the proxy materials online to help reduce the environmental impact of our annual meetings and reduce Apple’s printing and mailing costs.
Apple’s proxy materials are also available at investor.apple.com.
Upon written or oral request, Apple will deliver promptly a separate copy of the Notice of Internet Availability and, if you requested printed versions by mail, this Proxy Statement and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 25, 2021 to any shareholder that elects not to participate in householding.
In addition to solicitations by mail, the proxy solicitor and Apple’s directors, officers, and employees, without additional compensation, may solicit proxies on Apple’s behalf in person, by phone, or by electronic communication.