Over the serving customers around the world across Adobe Creative past four decades, our innovations have touched billions Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience Cloud.
We could not be more proud of the impact our technologies have had on every aspect of In Adobe Creative Cloud, our strategy is to advance the society: from inventing desktop publishing with PostScript; state-of-the-art and creative across all media types including to revolutionizing imaging and artistic expression with imaging, video and design by building new capabilities across Photoshop; to giving designers and publishers unprecedented desktop, web and mobile and empowering first-time creators freedom with InDesign; to pioneering video and gaming and communicators to tell their stories and collaborate with through Flash and electronic documents through PDF; ease.
During the year, we debuted hundreds of advances, to creating the digital marketing category with Adobe including Illustrator and Photoshop on the web and Creative Experience Cloud.
It is humbling to think that the digital world Cloud Spaces.
Adobe Creative Cloud, Document Cloud end-to-end video production.
With the launch of Creative and Experience Cloud are at the nexus of the global shift to Cloud Express, we are charting a new path to democratize digital across all industries.
We are catalyzing new markets creativity for first-time creators by unifying creation, across the digital economy for creators, communicators, collaboration and sharing on the web, while adding solopreneurs and businesses of all sizes.
significant value to our current Creative Cloud subscribers.
During the year, we saw tremendous growth and Experience Cloud are at the nexus of the in Acrobat online as more people tapped our powerful, free, global shift to digital across all industries.
With Adobe Experience Cloud, our strategy is to empower customers to meet their own sustainability goals by companies to deliver predictive, personalized, real-time digital lessening our collective impact on the earth.
For immersive experiences across every phase of the customer lifecycle.
This environments to succeed, they will have to be filled with rich, year, we accelerated innovation across Adobe Experience interactive, creative content, truly ownable digital assets and Platform applications.
We extended our Real-time Customer deliver uniquely engaging events and experiences—all areas Data Platform from business-to-consumer to business-to- where Adobe will play a pivotal role.
The total addressable business (B2B), bringing together individual and account market for Creative Cloud is projected to be approximately profiles across systems to give B2B companies a single view of $63 billion in 2024. each customer for the very first time.
We launched Adobe Journey Optimizer, harnessing over 20 years of industry- With Adobe Document Cloud, we are Accelerating leading email marketing and cross-channel campaign Document Productivity by powering the paper-to-digital management expertise to empower brands to design and revolution as remote and hybrid work become increasingly deliver personalized experiences across the full customer ingrained in our daily lives.
As trust becomes mission- ubiquitous PDF format to enable frictionless document critical for digital business success, our continued investment actions across web, desktop and mobile is paying big in Adobe Experience Platform as the foundation for strong dividends.
With PDF now the de-facto standard for business- governance capabilities across our Experience Cloud business to-business collaboration, we are deepening integrations is becoming more important.
We Cloud applications, unifying marketing workflows for remain committed to making PDF more intelligent for customers.
Using the power of artificial intelligence (AI) with Adobe Sensei, Document Cloud is All of this execution resulted in another outstanding fiscal year automating workflows, adding new value across all document for Adobe.
We achieved $15.79 billion in revenue, which “verbs,” and enabling new levels of productivity for small represents 23% year-over-year growth.
Earnings per share was businesses, nonprofits and enterprises alike.
We business workflows through our PDF and Sign APIs and marked several significant milestones in Q4: our first $4 billion empowering developers to build document automation quarter overall, our first $3 billion quarter for Digital Media, our solutions that transform how their businesses work.
The first $1 billion quarter for Digital Experience and over $2 billion addressable market for Document Cloud is projected to grow in operating cash flows for the quarter.
Our ability to drive top to $32 billion by 2024. and bottom-line growth at scale is unparalleled, and we are well-positioned to capture the expansive market opportunities With Adobe Experience Cloud, we are Powering Digital ahead of us.
Business to deliver personalization at scale in a rapidly changing digital economy.
Adobe offers the productivity and power digital business puts us in the sweet most comprehensive set of solutions for building these spot of where the world needs technology to play a role, and personalized experiences, leveraging advanced content positions us well for the next decade of growth.
creation tools, business-changing insights, and real-time customer data from the industry’s only enterprise-grade With Adobe Creative Cloud, we are Unleashing Creativity Customer Data Platform.
Taken together, these solutions across every media type and surface—empowering more empower businesses to deliver personalized experiences to people than ever with the tools to create, communicate, millions of people in milliseconds.
Our total addressable distribute, monetize their content and actively participate in market for Adobe Experience Cloud is estimated to be $110 the Creator Economy.
As creativity becomes as much about billion in 2024. collaboration as creation, we are integrating collaboration as a default directly into our applications and existing creative Underpinning our three clouds is the magic and power of workflows.
We are hard at work making of more role models, advancement, growth and meaningful AI better for both our customers and our communities by innovations for our customers and communities.
We continue amplifying human creativity, intelligence and ingenuity in to be a leader in pay and opportunity parity and we are service of cutting-edge digital experiences.
The combined committed to growing our talent pipeline and increasing addressable market across our three clouds is estimated to be global diversity across the company and in leadership $205 billion in 2024. positions.
backgrounds with strong technology and creativity skills, We’re thinking more expansively about each part of the Adobe established partnerships with Historically Black business and expanding the customers we serve–from Colleges and Universities and Hispanic-serving Institutions.
first-time creators, communicators and students to small Each university received a $1 million donation from Adobe as businesses and the largest global enterprises.
and continuously innovating business models to deliver value more rapidly to customers, capitalize on market opportunities In the last year, we have focused on supporting the protection and enable new monetization approaches.
As a first step and developers—across ISVs, system integrators, digital in this effort, Adobe, with financial support from the Adobe agencies and technology vendors—that create, customize Foundation, launched a 3-year Equity and Advancement and extend our solutions to the unique needs of our joint Initiative with 11 leading global Non-Governmental customers.
Through this model, the Adobe Foundation and the At Adobe, we believe that it is not just what you do, but how company are making long-term, strategic commitments and you do it that matters.
There are three key areas in which we are uniquely positioned and motivated Creativity for All: We believe everyone is creative and to make a difference: Adobe for All; Creativity for All; and has the right to share their story, which will create a richer Technology to Transform.
Adobe was named one of Fortune’s organizations globally that we enable with our products.
Technology to Transform: As one of the world’s most Looking Ahead innovative software companies whose products touch billions of people, we must take the impact of our technology as As we look to our 40-year anniversary, Adobe has a strong seriously as the development of the technology itself.
Our innovations are unwavering focus on our people, our customers and our making a significant impact through areas such as Content purpose to harness the best of Adobe toward making a Authenticity, AI Ethics, Privacy & Security and Digital Literacy.
Coupled with the expanding market opportunity, Adobe’s best years are ahead We are leading the Content Authenticity Initiative with of us.
numerous partners in hardware, software, publishing and social media, establishing the standard for transparency and Sincerely, attribution across the entire content ecosystem and helping to bring more trust to media.