We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud, and all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets.
YouTube provides people with entertainment, information, and opportunities to learn something new.
Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. We also know businesses of all sizes around the world rely on Google Ads to find customers and grow their businesses — and we make that even easier with AI.
With Performance Max, advertisers simply tell us their campaign goals and share their creative assets, and AI will automatically produce and run a highly effective ad campaign across all of Google’s properties, to meet their budget.
People thought we were crazy when we acquired YouTube and Android and when we launched Chrome, but those efforts have matured into major platforms for digital video and mobile devices and a safer, popular browser.
We are continually enhancing these efforts over time, whether by enabling users to auto-delete their data, giving them tools, such as My Ad Center, to control their ad experience, or advancing anti-malware, anti- phishing, and password security features.
Google Services Serving Our Users We have always been committed to building helpful products that can improve the lives of millions of people worldwide.
Google Services' core products and platforms include ads, Android, Chrome, devices, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Maps, Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube, with broad and growing adoption by users around the world.
This drive to make information more accessible and helpful has led us over the years to improve the discovery and creation of digital content both on the web and through platforms like Google Play and YouTube.
People are consuming many forms of digital content, including watching videos, streaming TV, playing games, listening to music, 6.
Working with content creators and partners, we continue to build new ways for people around the world to create and find great digital content.
How We Make Money We have built world-class advertising technologies for advertisers, agencies, and publishers to power their digital marketing businesses.
Our advertising solutions help millions of companies grow their businesses through our wide range of products across devices and formats, and we aim to ensure positive user experiences by serving the right ads at the right time and by building deep partnerships with brands and agencies.
Google Services generates revenues primarily by delivering both performance and brand advertising that appears on Google Search & other properties, YouTube, and Google Network partners' properties ("Google Network properties").
We continue to invest in both performance and brand advertising and seek to improve the measurability of advertising so advertisers understand the effectiveness of their campaigns.
• Performance advertising creates and delivers relevant ads that users will click on leading to direct engagement with advertisers.
Performance advertising lets our advertisers connect with users while driving measurable results.
Our ads tools allow performance advertisers to create simple text-based ads.
• Brand advertising helps enhance users' awareness of and affinity for advertisers' products and services, through videos, text, images, and other interactive ads that run across various devices.
We help brand advertisers deliver digital videos and other types of ads to specific audiences for their brand-building marketing campaigns.
We have allocated substantial resources to stopping bad advertising practices and protecting users on the web.
We focus on creating the best advertising experiences for our users and advertisers in many ways, including filtering out invalid traffic, removing billions of bad ads from our systems every year, and closely monitoring the sites, apps, and videos where ads appear and blocklisting them when necessary to ensure that ads do not fund bad content.
In addition, Google Services increasingly generates revenues from products and services beyond advertising, including: • consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such as YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One; • platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales of apps and in-app purchases; and • devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices.
Google Cloud Through our Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace offerings, Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, collaboration tools and other cloud services.
For example, for advertising, competing successfully depends on attracting and retaining: • users, for whom other products and services are literally one click away, largely on the basis of the relevance of our advertising, as well as the general usefulness, security, and availability of our products and services; • advertisers, primarily based on our ability to generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, and to deliver their advertisements in an efficient and effective manner across a variety of distribution channels; and • content providers, primarily based on the quality of our advertiser base, our ability to help these partners generate revenues from advertising, and the terms of our agreements with them.
We webcast via our investor relations website our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community.
We also share Google news and product updates on Google's Keyword blog at https://www.blog.google/, which may be of interest or material to our investors.
Risks Specific to our Company We generate a significant portion of our revenues from advertising.
Reduced spending by advertisers, a loss of partners, or new and existing technologies that block ads online and/or affect our ability to customize ads could harm our business.
We generated more than 75% of total revenues from online advertising in 2023.
Many of our advertisers, companies that distribute our products and services, digital publishers, and content providers can terminate their contracts with us at any time.
Changes to our advertising policies and data privacy practices, such as our initiatives to phase out third-party cookies, as well as changes to other companies’ advertising and/or data privacy practices have in the past, and may in the future, affect the advertising that we are able to provide.
In addition, technologies have been developed that make customized ads more difficult, or that block the display of ads altogether, and some providers of online services have integrated these technologies that could potentially impair the availability and functionality of third-party digital advertising.
In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to correlate with overall economic conditions.
Our financial condition and operating results may also suffer if our products and services are not responsive to the evolving needs and desires of our users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers.
Competitors’ success in providing compelling products and services or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, customers, and content providers could harm our financial condition and operating results.
Innovations in our products and services could also result in changes to user behavior and affect our revenue trends.
Our revenue growth rate could decline over time as a result of a number of factors, including changes in the devices and modalities used to access our products and services; changes in geographic mix; deceleration or declines in advertiser spending; competition; customer usage and demand for our products; decreases in our pricing of our products and services; ongoing product and policy changes; and shifts to lower priced products and services.
Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products and services that better serve the needs of our users, advertisers, customers, content providers, and other partners.
Our products and services involve the storage, handling, and transmission of proprietary and other sensitive information.
Such incidents and activities may include the use of user data or our systems in a manner inconsistent with our terms, contracts or policies, the existence of false or undesirable user accounts, election interference, improper ad purchases, activities that threaten people’s safety on- or off-line, or instances of spamming, scraping, or spreading disinformation.
We, like others in the industry, face violations of our content guidelines across our platforms, including sophisticated attempts by bad actors to manipulate our hosting and advertising systems to fraudulently generate revenues, or to otherwise generate traffic that does not represent genuine user interest or intent.
While we invest significantly in efforts to promote high-quality and relevant results and to detect and prevent low-quality content and invalid traffic, we have been unable and may continue to be unable to detect and prevent all such abuses or promote 17.
We also face other challenges from low-quality and irrelevant content websites, including content farms, which are websites that generate large quantities of low-quality content to help them improve their search rankings.
Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our users.
Internet access providers may be able to restrict, block, degrade, or charge for access to certain of our products and services, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers.
Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet, and certain of our products require significant bandwidth to work effectively.
Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and government-owned service providers.
Some of these providers have taken, or have stated that they may take, measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to certain of our products by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings, or by providing our competitors preferential access.
• Copyright and other intellectual property: Copyright and related laws, including the EU Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market and European Economic Area transpositions, which may introduce new licensing regimes, increase liability with respect to content uploaded by users or linked to from our platforms, or create property rights in news publications that could require payments to news agencies and publishers, which may result in other regulatory actions.
• Content moderation: Various laws covering content moderation and removal, and related disclosure obligations, such as the EU's Digital Services Act, Florida’s Senate Bill 7072 and Texas’ House Bill 20, and laws and proposed legislation in Singapore, Australia, and the United Kingdom that impose penalties for failure to remove certain types of content or require disclosure of information about the operation of our services and algorithms, which may make it harder for services like Google Search and YouTube to detect and deal with low-quality, deceptive, or harmful content.
We are subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and orders involving competition, intellectual property, data privacy and security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, and other matters.
Claims have been brought, and we expect will continue to be brought, against us for defamation, negligence, breaches of contract, copyright and trademark infringement, unfair competition, unlawful activity, torts, privacy rights violations, fraud, or other legal theories based on the nature and content of information available on or via our services, the design and effect of our products and services, or due to our involvement in hosting, transmitting, marketing, branding, or providing access to content created by third parties.
In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice, various U.S. states, and other plaintiffs have filed several antitrust lawsuits about various aspects of our business, including our advertising technologies and practices, the operation and distribution of Google Search, and the operation and distribution of the Android operating system and Play Store.
• The EU’s Digital Markets Act, which will require in-scope companies to obtain user consent for combining data across certain products and require search engines to share anonymized data with rival companies, among other changes.
We report Google in two segments, Google Services and Google Cloud; we also report all non-Google businesses collectively as Other Bets.
For additional information on our segments, see Part I, Item 1 Business and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Trends in Our Business and Financial Effect The following long-term trends have contributed to the results of our consolidated operations, and we anticipate that they will continue to affect our future results: • Users' behaviors and advertising continue to shift online as the digital economy evolves.
The continuing evolution of the online world has contributed to the growth of our business and our revenues since inception.
We expect that this evolution will continue to benefit our business and our revenues, although at a slower pace than we have experienced historically, in particular after the outsized growth in our advertising revenues during the COVID-19 pandemic.
In addition, we face increasing competition for user engagement and advertisers, which may affect our revenues.
• Users continue to access our products and services using diverse devices and modalities, which allows for new advertising formats that may benefit our revenues but adversely affect our margins.
We benefit from advertising revenues generated from different channels, including mobile, and newer advertising formats.
Additionally, as the market for a particular device type or modality matures, our advertising revenues may be affected.
For example, changing dynamics within the global smartphone market, such as increased market saturation in developed countries, can affect our mobile advertising revenues.
We expect TAC paid to our distribution partners and Google Network partners to increase as our revenues grow and TAC as a percentage of our advertising revenues ("TAC rate") to be affected by changes in device mix; geographic mix; partner agreement terms; partner mix; the percentage of queries channeled through paid access points; product mix; the relative revenue growth rates of advertising revenues from different channels; and revenue share terms.
• As online advertising evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings, which may affect our monetization.
As interactions between users and advertisers change, and as online user behavior evolves, we continue to expand our product offerings to serve these changing needs, which may affect our monetization.
For example, revenues from ads on YouTube and Google Play monetize at a lower rate than our traditional search ads.
When developing new products and services we generally focus first on user experience and then on monetization.
We continue to invest heavily and develop localized versions of our products and advertising programs relevant to our users in these markets.
• The revenues that we derive beyond advertising are increasing and may adversely affect our margins.
Revenues from cloud, consumer subscriptions, platforms, and devices, which may have differing characteristics than our advertising revenues, have grown over time, and we expect this trend to continue as we focus on expanding our products and services.
Revenues and Monetization Metrics We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers of all sizes with infrastructure and platform services as well as communication and collaboration tools; sales of other products and services, such as apps and in-app purchases, and devices; and fees received for consumer subscription-based products.
Additionally, fluctuations in our revenues generated from advertising ("Google advertising"), revenues from other sources ("Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues"), Google Cloud, and Other Bets revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by other factors unique to each set of revenues, as described below.
Google Services Google Services revenues consist of Google advertising as well as Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues.
Google Advertising Google advertising revenues are comprised of the following: • Google Search & other, which includes revenues generated on Google search properties (including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.
), and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play; • YouTube ads, which includes revenues generated on YouTube properties; and • Google Network, which includes revenues generated on Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
We use certain metrics to track how well traffic across various properties is monetized as it relates to our advertising revenues: paid clicks and cost-per-click pertain to traffic on Google Search & other properties, while impressions and cost-per-impression pertain to traffic on our Google Network properties.
Paid clicks represent engagement by users and include clicks on advertisements by end-users on Google search properties and other Google owned and operated properties including Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play.
Cost- per-click is defined as click-driven revenues divided by our total number of paid clicks and represents the average amount we charge advertisers for each engagement by users.
As our business evolves, we periodically review, refine, and update our methodologies for monitoring, gathering, and counting the number of paid clicks and the number of impressions, and for identifying the revenues generated by the corresponding click and impression activity.
Fluctuations in our advertising revenues, as well as the change in paid clicks and cost-per-click on Google Search & other properties and the change in impressions and cost-per-impression on Google Network properties and the correlation between these items have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as: • advertiser competition for keywords; • changes in advertising quality, formats, delivery or policy; • changes in device mix; • seasonal fluctuations in internet usage, advertising expenditures, and underlying business trends, such as traditional retail seasonality; and • traffic growth in emerging markets compared to more mature markets and across various verticals and channels.
Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Google Subscriptions, Platforms, and Devices Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues are comprised of the following: • consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One; • platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales of apps and in-app purchases; • devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices; and • other products and services.
Fluctuations in our Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as changes in customer usage and demand, number of subscribers, and fluctuations in the timing of product launches.
Google Cloud Google Cloud revenues are comprised of the following: • Google Cloud Platform, which generates consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, and other services.
Fluctuations in our Google Cloud revenues have been, and may continue to be, affected by factors in addition to the general factors described above, such as customer usage.
Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers; and ◦ amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
• Other cost of revenues primarily includes: ◦ compensation expense related to our data centers and other operations such as content review and customer and product support; ◦ content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee); ◦ depreciation expense related to our technical infrastructure; and ◦ inventory and other costs related to the devices we sell.
• Revenues were $307.4 billion, an increase of 9% year over year, primarily driven by an increase in Google Services revenues of $19.0 billion, or 8%, and an increase in Google Cloud revenues of $6.8 billion, or 26%.
Financial Results Revenues The following table presents revenues by type (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2022 2023 Google Search & other $ 162,450 $ 175,033 YouTube ads 29,243 31,510 Google Network 32,780 31,312 Google advertising 224,473 237,855 Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices 29,055 34,688 Google Services total 253,528 272,543 Google Cloud 26,280 33,088 Other Bets 1,068 1,527 Hedging gains (losses) 1,960 236 Total revenues $ 282,836 $ 307,394 Google Services Google advertising revenues Google Search & other Google Search & other revenues increased $12.6 billion from 2022 to 2023.
The overall growth was driven by interrelated factors including increases in search queries resulting from growth in user adoption and usage on mobile devices; growth in advertiser spending; and improvements we have made in ad formats and delivery.
YouTube ads YouTube ads revenues increased $2.3 billion from 2022 to 2023.
The growth was driven by our brand and direct response advertising products, both of which benefited from increased spending by our advertisers.
Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. Monetization Metrics The following table presents changes in monetization metrics for Google Search & other revenues (paid clicks and cost-per-click) and Google Network revenues (impressions and cost-per-impression), expressed as a percentage, from 2022 to 2023: Google Search & other Paid clicks change 7 % Cost-per-click change 1 % Google Network Impressions change (5) % Cost-per-impression change 0 % Changes in paid clicks and impressions are driven by a number of interrelated factors, including changes in advertiser spending; ongoing product and policy changes; and, as it relates to paid clicks, fluctuations in search queries resulting from changes in user adoption and usage, primarily on mobile devices.
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues increased $5.6 billion from 2022 to 2023 primarily driven by growth in subscriptions, largely for YouTube services.
The growth in YouTube services was primarily due to an increase in paid subscribers.
Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues increased $1.0 billion from 2021 to 2022 primarily driven by growth in subscription and device revenues, partially offset by a decrease in platform revenues.
The growth in subscriptions was largely for YouTube services, primarily due to an increase in paid subscribers.
The decrease in platform revenues was primarily due to Google Play, driven by the fee structure changes we announced in 2021 as well as a decrease in buyer spending.
The increase in other cost of revenues from 2022 to 2023 was primarily due to increases in content acquisition costs, largely for YouTube, and compensation expenses, which included $479 million of charges related to employee severance associated with the reduction in our workforce.
In Google Services, we also generate cash through consumer subscriptions and the sale of apps and in-app purchases and devices.
In Google Cloud we generate cash through consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, collaboration tools, and other cloud services.
Our primary uses of cash from operating activities include payments to distribution and Google Network partners, to employees for compensation, and to content providers.
Loss Contingencies We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, privacy, data security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury consumer protection, and other matters.
We generate revenues by delivering relevant, cost-effective online advertising; cloud-based solutions that provide enterprise customers with infrastructure and platform services as well as communication and collaboration tools; sales of other products and services, such as fees received for consumer subscription-based products, apps and in-app purchases, and devices.
Advertising Revenues We generate advertising revenues primarily by delivering advertising on: • Google Search and other properties, including revenues from traffic generated by search distribution partners who use Google.com as their default search in browsers, toolbars, etc.
and other Google owned and operated properties like Gmail, Google Maps, and Google Play; • YouTube properties; and • Google Network properties, including revenues from Google Network properties participating in AdMob, AdSense, and Google Ad Manager.
Our customers generally purchase advertising inventory through Google Ads, Google Ad Manager, Google Display & Video 360, and Google Marketing Platform, among others.
We offer advertising by delivering both performance and brand advertising.
We recognize revenues for performance advertising when a user engages with the advertisement.
For brand advertising, we recognize revenues when the ad is displayed, or a user views the ad.
For ads placed on Google Network properties, we evaluate whether we are the principal (i.e., report revenues on a gross basis) or agent (i.e., report revenues on a net basis).
Generally, we report advertising revenues for ads placed on Google Network properties on a gross basis, that is, the amounts billed to our customers are recorded as revenues, 56.
Our control is evidenced by our sole ability to monetize the advertising inventory before it is transferred to our customers and is further supported by us being primarily responsible to our customers and having a level of discretion in establishing pricing.
Google Subscriptions, Platforms, and Devices Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices revenues consist of revenues from: • consumer subscriptions, which primarily include revenues from YouTube services, such YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket, as well as Google One; • platforms, which primarily include revenues from Google Play from the sales of apps and in-app purchases; • devices, which primarily include sales of the Pixel family of devices; and • other products and services.
Subscription revenues are recognized ratably over the period of the subscription, primarily monthly.
We report revenues from Google Play app sales and in-app purchases on a net basis, because our performance obligation is to facilitate a transaction between app developers and end users, for which we earn a service fee.
Google Cloud Revenues Google Cloud revenues consist of revenues from: • Google Cloud Platform, which generates consumption-based fees and subscriptions for infrastructure, platform, and other services.
Our cloud services are generally provided on either a consumption or subscription basis and may have contract terms longer than a year.
Revenues related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis are recognized ratably over the contract term as the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the cloud services.
Our distribution partners include browser providers, mobile carriers, original equipment manufacturers, and software developers; and ◦ amounts paid to Google Network partners primarily for ads displayed on their properties.
Table of Contents Alphabet Inc. • Other cost of revenues includes: ◦ compensation expense related to our data centers and other operations such as content review and customer and product support; ◦ content acquisition costs, which are payments to content providers from whom we license video and other content for distribution on YouTube and Google Play (we pay fees to these content providers based on revenues generated or a flat fee); ◦ depreciation expense related to our technical infrastructure; and ◦ inventory and other costs related to the devices we sell.
Advertising and Promotional Expenses We expense advertising and promotional costs in the period in which they are incurred.
For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2022, and 2023, advertising and promotional expenses totaled approximately $7.9 billion, $9.2 billion, and $8.7 billion, respectively.
Revenues Disaggregated Revenues The following table presents revenues disaggregated by type (in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 2022 2023 Google Search & other $ 148,951 $ 162,450 $ 175,033 YouTube ads 28,845 29,243 31,510 Google Network 31,701 32,780 31,312 Google advertising 209,497 224,473 237,855 Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices 28,032 29,055 34,688 Google Services total 237,529 253,528 272,543 Google Cloud 19,206 26,280 33,088 Other Bets 753 1,068 1,527 Hedging gains (losses) 149 1,960 236 Total revenues $ 257,637 $ 282,836 $ 307,394 No individual customer or groups of affiliated customers represented more than 10% of our revenues in 2021, 2022, or 2023.
Our revenue backlog represents commitments in customer contracts for future services that have not yet been recognized as revenue.
Deferred revenues primarily relate to Google Cloud and Google subscriptions, platforms, and devices.
On March 20, 2019, the EC announced its decision that certain contractual provisions in agreements that Google had with AdSense for Search partners infringed European competition law.
The DOJ and a number of state Attorneys General filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on October 20, 2020 alleging that Google violated U.S. antitrust laws relating to Search and Search advertising.
The EC, the CMA, and the ACCC each opened a formal investigation into Google's advertising technology business practices on June 22, 2021, May 25, 2022, and June 29, 2022, respectively.
Other We are subject to claims, lawsuits, regulatory and government investigations, other proceedings, and consent orders involving competition, intellectual property, data security, tax and related compliance, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, goods and services offered by advertisers or publishers using our platforms, personal injury, consumer protection, and other matters.
Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We report our segment results as Google Services, Google Cloud, and Other Bets: • Google Services includes products and services such as ads, Android, Chrome, devices, Google Maps, Google Play, Search, and YouTube.
Google Services generates revenues primarily from advertising; fees received for consumer subscription-based products such as YouTube TV, YouTube Music and Premium, and NFL Sunday Ticket; the sale of apps and in-app purchases and devices.
Google Cloud generates revenues primarily from consumption-based fees and subscriptions received for Google Cloud Platform services, Google Workspace communication and collaboration tools, and other enterprise services.
Revenues, certain costs, such as costs associated with content and traffic acquisition, certain engineering activities, and devices, as well as certain operating expenses are directly attributable to our segments.