ENTERTAINMENT The Entertainment segment generally encompasses the Company’s non-sports focused global film, television and direct- to-consumer (DTC) video streaming content production and distribution activities.
The significant lines of business within Entertainment are as follows: • Linear Networks ◦ Domestic: ABC Television Network (ABC Network); Disney, Freeform, FX and National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) branded television channels; and eight owned ABC television stations ◦ International: Disney, Fox (which will be rebranded in fiscal 2024, primarily to FX or Star), FX, National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) and Star branded general entertainment television channels outside of the U.S. ◦ A 50% equity investment in A+E Television Networks (A+E), which operates cable channels including A&E, HISTORY and Lifetime • Direct-to-Consumer ◦ Disney+: a global DTC service that primarily offers general entertainment and family programming.
cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top (e.g.
YouTube TV) service providers) (MVPDs) for the right to deliver our programming to their customers.
• Subscription fees - Fees charged to customers/subscribers for our DTC streaming services • Advertising - Sales of advertising time/space • TV/VOD distribution - Licensing fees for the right to use our film and episodic content • Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our films to theaters • Home entertainment distribution - Sales and rentals of our film and episodic content to retailers and through distributors • Other revenue - Revenues from licensing our music, ticket sales from stage play performances, fees from licensing our IP for use in stage plays, sales of post-production services and the allocation of consumer products merchandise licensing revenues The significant expenses of Entertainment are as follows: • Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor, distribution costs and costs of sales.
The Company’s Linear Networks businesses provide programming under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs and/or affiliated television stations that are generally based on contractually specified rates on a per subscriber basis.
Disney Channels Branded television channels include: Disney Channel; Disney Junior; and Disney XD (collectively Disney Channels).
The channel features live-action comedy series, animated programming and preschool series as well as original movies and theatrical films.
The channel features a mix of live-action and animated programming.
National Geographic Channels Branded television channels include: National Geographic; Nat Geo Wild; and Nat Geo Mundo (collectively National Geographic Channels).
The number of subscribers (in millions) for the significant domestic branded channels are as follows: Subscribers(1) Disney Disney Channel 71 Disney Junior(2) 52 Disney XD(2) 51 Freeform(2) 71 FX Channels FX 72 FXX(2) 68 FXM(2) 43 National Geographic Channels National Geographic 71 National Geographic Wild(2) 42 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2023.
Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts.
(2) The Company renewed its MVPD agreement with an affiliate during September 2023, under which the affiliate will no longer distribute these channels.
The stations we own are as follows: Television Market TV Station Market Ranking(1) WABC New York, NY 1 KABC Los Angeles, CA 2 WLS Chicago, IL 3 WPVI Philadelphia, PA 4 KTRK Houston, TX 7 KGO San Francisco, CA 10 WTVD Raleigh-Durham, NC 23 KFSN Fresno, CA 53 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2023 International Linear Networks International Linear Networks use content from the Company’s various studios, including library titles, as well as content acquired from third parties.
The Company operates approximately 285 general entertainment and family channels outside the U.S. in approximately 40 languages and 190 countries/territories.
As of September 2023 and 2022, the estimated number of unique subscribers for our general entertainment channels, based on internal management reports, are 270 million and 315 million, respectively.
As of September 2023 and 2022, the estimated number of unique subscribers for our family channels, based on internal management reports, are 225 million and 220 million, respectively.
A+E operates a variety of cable channels: • A&E – which generally offers unscripted entertainment programming • HISTORY – which offers original unscripted series and event-driven specials • Lifetime and Lifetime Movie Network (LMN) – which offer female-focused programming • FYI – which offers contemporary lifestyle programming A+E programming is available in approximately 200 countries and territories.
A+E’s networks are distributed internationally under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs.
A+E programming is also sold to international TV/VOD services.
6 The number of domestic subscribers (in millions) for A+E channels are as follows: Subscribers(1) A&E 65 HISTORY 65 Lifetime 65 LMN 49 FYI 37 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2023.
Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts.
Direct-to-Consumer Disney+, Disney+ Hotstar and Hulu are subscription services that provide video streaming of general entertainment and family programming.
The services are offered individually or in various bundles, which may include ESPN+ (see Sports segment discussion), to customers directly or through third-party distributors on mobile and internet connected devices.
The majority of Direct-to- Consumer revenue is derived from subscription fees and advertising.
Disney+ (including Star+ in Latin America) Disney+ is a subscription-based DTC service with Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and National Geographic branded programming, which are all top-level selections or “tiles” within the Disney+ interface.
As of September 30, 2023, the estimated number of paid Disney+ Core subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 113 million.
As of September 30, 2023, the estimated number of paid Disney+ Hotstar subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 38 million.
Disney+ Core and Disney+ Hotstar offer content from the Company’s various studios, including library titles, as well as content acquired from third parties.
The majority of Disney+ Core and Disney+ Hotstar revenue is derived from subscription fees and, to a lesser extent, Advertising.
Hulu Hulu is a domestic subscription-based DTC service with general entertainment content from the Company’s various studios as well as content licensed from third parties.
Hulu’s revenue is primarily derived from subscription fees and Advertising.
Hulu offers subscription VOD (SVOD) services with or without advertising in addition to a digital OTT MVPD (Live TV) service.
The Live TV service is available with either of Hulu’s SVOD services and includes live linear streams of cable networks and the major broadcast networks.
In addition, Hulu offers subscriptions to premium services such as Max, Cinemax, Starz and Showtime, which can be added to the Hulu service.
Certain programming from ABC Network, Freeform and FX Channels is also available on the Hulu SVOD service one day after the linear airing on these channels.
As of September 30, 2023, the estimated number of paid Hulu subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 49 million.
7 Content Sales/Licensing and Other The majority of Content Sales/Licensing revenue is derived from TV/VOD, theatrical and home entertainment distribution.
TV/VOD Distribution We license our content to third-party television networks, television stations and other video service providers for distribution to viewers on television or a variety of internet-connected devices, including through other DTC services.
In the domestic and most major international markets, we generally distribute and market our films directly.
In some territories, certain films may be exclusively distributed on our DTC streaming services.
Home Entertainment Distribution We distribute the Company’s film and episodic content in home entertainment markets on DVD and Blu-ray disc, through electronic home video licenses and VOD rentals globally.
Domestically and internationally, we distribute directly to retailers and through independent distribution companies.
Electronic formats of our film and episodic content may be purchased through e-tailers such as Apple and Amazon, and MVPDs, such as Comcast and DirecTV, and physical formats are generally sold to retailers, such as Walmart and Target.
We also license titles to VOD e-tailers concurrent with physical home entertainment distribution.
Disney Music Group distributes music both physically and digitally and also licenses music throughout the world in various forms of media, including: television; print; gaming; and consumer products.
Content Production and Acquisition Produced content primarily consists of original films and episodic programs, network news and daytime/nighttime content and licensed content includes acquired episodic programming rights.
Original content is also commissioned and produced by various third-party studios.
Costs to produce content are generally capitalized and allocated across Entertainment’s businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows.
The Company has a significant library of content spanning approximately 100 years of production history as well as acquired libraries.
In addition, the library includes approximately 100 series and 65 films that were produced for initial distribution on our DTC platforms.
The vast majority of our productions will be distributed on our Linear Networks and/or DTC platforms or theatrically.
We also license, acquire or produce local content for use in various countries/territories.
Competition and Seasonality Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer compete for viewers’ attention and audience share primarily with other television networks, independent television stations and other media, such as other DTC streaming services, social media and video games.
With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks, independent television stations, MVPDs, other DTC streaming services and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines, radio and billboards.
Our television and radio stations primarily compete for audiences and advertisers in local market areas.
Linear Networks compete with other networks for carriage by MVPDs.
Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry, including subscriber trends, and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.
Content Sales/Licensing businesses compete with all forms of entertainment and a significant number of companies produce and/or distribute theatrical and episodic content, distribute products in the home entertainment market, provide pay TV/ VOD services, and produce music and live theater.
We also compete with other media and entertainment companies, independent production companies and VOD services for creative and performing talent, story properties, show concepts, scripted and other programming, advertiser support, production facilities and exhibition outlets that are essential to the success of our Entertainment businesses.
Advertising revenues at Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels.
Affiliate revenues vary with the subscriber trends of MVPDs.
Sports The Sports segment generally encompasses the Company’s sports-focused global television and DTC video streaming content production and distribution activities.
The significant lines of business within Sports are as follows: • ESPN (generally owned 80% by the Company) ◦ Domestic: ▪ Eight ESPN-branded television channels ▪ ESPN on ABC (sports programmed on the ABC Network by ESPN) ▪ ESPN+ DTC video streaming service 9 ◦ International: ESPN-branded channels outside of the U.S. • Star: Star-branded sports channels in India The significant revenues of Sports are as follows: • Affiliate fees • Advertising • Subscription fees • Other revenue - Fees from the following activities: pay-per-view events on ESPN+, sub-licensing of sports rights, programming ESPN on ABC and licensing the ESPN brand The significant expenses of Sports are as follows: • Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs.
• Selling, general and administrative costs, including marketing costs • Depreciation and amortization Domestic ESPN Branded television channels include eight 24-hour domestic television sports channels: ESPN and ESPN2 (both of which are dedicated to professional and college sports as well as sports news and original programming); ESPNU (which is dedicated to college sports); ESPNEWS (which re-airs select ESPN studio shows and airs a variety of other programming); SEC Network (which is dedicated to Southeastern Conference college athletics); ACC Network (which is dedicated to Atlantic Coast Conference college athletics); ESPN Deportes (which airs professional and college sports as well as studio shows in Spanish); and Longhorn Network (which is dedicated to The University of Texas athletics).
The Company has various sports programming rights, which are used to produce content aired on ESPN television networks and ESPN+, including live events and sports news.
The number of subscribers (in millions) for the significant domestic branded channels are as follows: Subscribers ESPN(1) 71 ESPN2(1) 71 ESPNU(1) 50 ESPNEWS(2) 53 SEC Network(2) 48 ACC Network(2) 46 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2023.
Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts.
(2) Because Nielsen Media Research does not measure this channel, estimated subscribers are according to SNL Kagan as of December 2022.
ESPN+ is a domestic subscription-based DTC service offering thousands of live sporting events, on-demand sports content and other original programming.
The service is offered individually or in various bundles with Disney+ and Hulu to customers directly or through third-party distributors on mobile and internet connected devices.
ESPN+ revenue is derived from subscription fees, pay-per-view fees and, to a lesser extent, advertising.
Channels previously branded Fox are now branded ESPN.
As of September 2023, the estimated number of subscribers to ESPN branded channels outside the U.S., based on internal management reports, was approximately 59 million.
As of September 2023, the estimated number of subscribers to Star branded channels, based on internal management reports, was 82 million.
Competition and Seasonality Sports competes for viewers’ attention and audience share primarily with other television networks, independent television stations and other media, such as other DTC streaming services, social media and video games.
With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks, independent television stations, MVPDs and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines, radio and billboards.
The Sports television networks compete with other networks for carriage by MVPDs.
Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.
We also compete with other media and entertainment companies and VOD services for sports rights, creative and performing talent and other programming, advertiser support and production facilities that are essential to the success of our Sports businesses.
Affiliate revenues vary with the subscriber trends of MVPDs.
Important IP includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines and merchandise.
FEDERAL REGULATION — ENTERTAINMENT AND SPORTS Television broadcasting is subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.
Each of the television stations we own must be licensed by the FCC.
The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations an entity can own in a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations an entity can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations.
Currently: ◦ FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market.
The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning “indecent” programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children’s programming.
In addition, broadcast stations are generally required to provide an average of three hours per week of programming that has as a “significant purpose” meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger.
• Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations.
With respect to MVPDs operating within a television station’s Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either “must carry” status, pursuant to which MVPDs generally must carry a local television station in the station’s market, or “retransmission consent” status, pursuant to which the MVPDs must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal.
The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations between programmers and distributors regarding the carriage of networks by cable and satellite distribution companies, and some cable and satellite distribution companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on their systems.
The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act, other legislation and specific FCC rules and policies.
The current economic conditions could also have the effect of reducing attendance at our parks and resorts, prices that MVPDs pay for our cable programming, purchases of and prices for advertising on our DTC products or subscription levels for our cable programming or DTC products, while also continuing to increase the prices we pay for goods, services and labor.
Changes in technology, in consumer consumption patterns and in how entertainment products are created affect demand for our entertainment products, the revenue we can generate from these products and the cost of producing or distributing these products.
The media entertainment and internet businesses in which we participate increasingly depend on our ability to successfully adapt to new technologies including shifting patterns of content consumption and how entertainment products are generated.
New technologies affect the demand for our products, the manner in which our products are distributed to consumers, ways we charge for and receive revenue for our entertainment products and the stability of those revenue streams, the sources and nature of competing content offerings, the time and manner in which consumers acquire and view some of our entertainment products and the options available to advertisers for reaching their desired audiences.
These developments have impacted the business model for certain traditional forms of distribution, as evidenced by the industry-wide decline in ratings for broadcast and cable television, the reduction in demand for home entertainment sales of theatrical content, the development of alternative distribution channels for broadcast and cable programming and declines in subscriber levels for traditional cable channels.
In order to respond to the impact of new technologies on our businesses, we regularly consider, and from time to time implement changes to our business models, most recently by developing, investing in and acquiring DTC products, reorganizing our media and entertainment businesses to advance our DTC strategies, and developing new media offerings.
In addition, declines in certain traditional forms of distribution may increase the cost of content allocable to our DTC offerings, negatively impacting the profitability of our DTC offerings.
To date our DTC streaming services have experienced significant losses.
The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently create compelling content, which may be distributed, among other ways, through broadcast, cable, theaters, internet or mobile technology, and used in theme park attractions, hotels and other resort facilities and travel experiences and consumer products.
Such distribution must meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market and respond to competition from an expanding array of choices facilitated by technological developments in the delivery of content.
Consumer tastes and preferences impact, among other items, revenue from advertising sales (which are based in part on ratings for the programs in which advertisements air), affiliate fees, subscription fees, theatrical film receipts, the license of rights to other distributors, theme park admissions, hotel room charges and merchandise, food and beverage sales, sales of licensed consumer products or sales of our other consumer products and services.
The convergence of computing, communication and entertainment devices, increased broadband internet speed and penetration, increased availability and speed of mobile data transmission and increasingly sophisticated attempts to obtain unauthorized access to data systems have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our films, television productions and other creative works easier and faster and protection and enforcement of IP rights more challenging.
The unauthorized distribution and access to entertainment content generally continues to be a significant challenge for IP rights holders.
Distribution innovations, including in response to COVID-19, have increased opportunities to access content in unauthorized ways.
These developments require us to devote substantial resources to protecting our IP against unlicensed use and present the risk of increased losses of revenue as a result of unlicensed distribution of our content and other commercial misuses of our IP.
The profitability of one or more of our businesses could be adversely impacted by the significant contraction of distribution channels for our products and services, including through third-party licensees or sellers of our licensed goods and services.
For example, in fiscal 2023, we reorganized our media and entertainment operations, which had been previously reported in one segment, into two segments, Entertainment and Sports; in fiscal 2023 we announced that we would review content, primarily on our DTC services, for alignment with a strategic change in our approach to content curation, resulting in removal of certain content from our platforms and related impairment charges; in fiscal 2022, we announced plans to introduce an ad-supported Disney+ service, new pricing model and price increases and cost realignment; in fiscal 2021, we announced the closure of a substantial number of our Disney-branded retail stores; and we have announced exploration of a number of new types of businesses.
For example, notwithstanding our announced plans to rationalize costs, the costs of our DTC strategy, and associated losses, may continue to grow or be reduced more slowly than anticipated, which may impact our distribution strategy across businesses/distribution platforms, the types of content we distribute through various businesses/distribution platforms, and the timing and sequencing of content windows.
For example: • Our programming and production operations compete to obtain creative, performing, production and business talent, sports and other programming, story properties, advertiser support, production facilities and market share with traditional and new media platforms, including other studio operators, television networks, VOD providers and other sources of broadband delivered content.
• Our television networks and stations and DTC offerings compete for the sale of advertising time with traditional and new media platforms, including other television and VOD services, as well as with newspapers, magazines, billboards and radio stations, and various forms of internet and mobile delivered content, which offer advertising delivery technologies that are more targeted than can be achieved through traditional means.
• Our television networks compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers.
• Our content sales/licensing operations compete for customers with all other forms of entertainment.
21 • Our consumer products business competes with other licensors and creators of IP.
• Our DTC streaming services compete for customers with an increasing number of competitors’ DTC offerings, all other forms of media and all other forms of entertainment, as well as for technology, creative, performing and business talent and for content.
Such competition may also reduce, or limit growth in, prices for our products and services, including advertising rates and subscription fees at our media networks and DTC offerings, parks and resorts admissions and room rates and prices for consumer products from which we derive license revenues.
We enter into long-term contracts for both the acquisition and the distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for the acquisition of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, and contracts for the distribution of our programming to content distributors.
For example, a recent carriage agreement renewal includes fewer of our linear networks but provides for certain of our DTC streaming services to be made available to the distributor’s subscribers.
Moreover, our ability to renew these contracts on favorable terms may be affected by a number of factors, such as consolidation in the market for program distribution and the entrance of new participants in the market for distribution of content on digital platforms.
Some of these regulations include: • U.S. FCC regulation of our television and radio networks, our national programming networks and our owned television stations.
• Restrictions on the manner in which content is currently licensed and distributed, ownership restrictions or film or television content requirements, investment obligations or quotas.
For example, in 2022 the U.S. and other countries implemented a series of sanctions against Russia in response to events in Russia and Ukraine; U.S. agencies have enhanced trade restrictions, including new prohibitions on the importation of goods from certain regions and other jurisdictions are considering similar measures; U.S. state governments have become more active in passing legislation targeted at specific sectors and companies and applying existing laws in novel ways to new technologies, including streaming and online commerce; and in many countries/regions around the world (including but not limited to the EU) regulators are requiring us to broadcast on our linear (or display on our DTC streaming services) programming produced in specific countries as well as invest specified amounts of our revenues in local content productions.
Various risks may impact the success of our DTC streaming services.
The success of our DTC strategy and profitability of our DTC streaming services will be impacted by the success of the reorganization of our media and entertainment business and our ability to advance our DTC strategies, drive subscriber additions and retention based on the attractiveness of our content, 23 manage churn in reaction to price increases, achieve the desired financial impact of the Disney+ ad supported service, pricing model and price increases, our ability to execute on cost realignment and the effects of our determinations with regard to distribution for our creative content across windows.
Consumers may not be willing to pay for an expanding set of DTC streaming services at increasing prices, potentially exacerbated by an economic downturn.
In addition, economic downturns negatively impact the purchase of and price for advertising on our DTC streaming services.
Acquisition of new subscribers to our DTC streaming services is not linear, and we have experienced net losses of subscribers in some periods.
Our content does not always successfully attract and retain subscribers in the quantities that we expect.
These and other risks may impact the profitability and success of our DTC streaming services.
In addition, licensing revenues fluctuate with the timing and performance of our theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts.
• Revenues from content sales/licensing fluctuate due to the timing of content releases across various distribution markets.
• DTC revenues fluctuate based on: changes in the number of subscribers, mix of subscribers to different offerings and subscriber fees; viewership levels; and the demand for sports and film and television content.
Film and television library properties and television stations owned by the Company are described in Item 1 under the caption Entertainment.
The increase in subscription revenue was due to subscriber growth and higher rates.
The increase in subscription revenue was due to subscriber growth and higher average rates.
The Entertainment segment comprises three significant lines of business: • Linear Networks, which primarily generates revenue from affiliate fees and advertising.
In recent years, revenues from affiliate fees have declined due to fewer subscribers to MVPD services that carry our linear networks.
• Direct-to-Consumer, which primarily generates revenue from subscription fees and advertising • Content Sales/Licensing, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of film and episodic content in the TV/VOD and home entertainment markets, distribution of films in the theatrical market, licensing of our music rights, sales of tickets to stage play performances and licensing of our IP for use in stage plays.
Revenues also include an intersegment allocation of revenues from the Experiences segment, which is meant to reflect royalties on consumer products merchandise licensing revenues generated on IP created by the Entertainment segment.
Programming and production costs include the following: • Amortization of capitalized production costs and licensed programming rights • Subscriber-based fees for programming the Hulu Live service, including fees paid by Hulu to the Sports segment and other Entertainment segment businesses for the right to air their linear networks on Hulu Live • Production costs related to live programming (primarily news) • Amortization of participations and residual obligations • Fees paid to the Sports segment to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Star+ Amortization of capitalized production costs and licensed programming rights is generally allocated across Entertainment’s businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows.
Linear sports channels are experiencing declines in subscribers that are directionally consistent with those at the linear networks in the Entertainment segment.
The following table presents additional information about Disney+ and Hulu(1).
Paid subscribers(1) as of: September 30, October 1, % Change (in millions) 2023 2022 Better (Worse) Disney+ Domestic (U.S. and Canada) 46.5 46.4 — % International (excluding Disney+ Hotstar)(1) 66.1 56.5 17 % Disney+ Core(2) 112.6 102.9 9 % Disney+ Hotstar 37.6 61.3 (39)% Hulu SVOD Only 43.9 42.8 3 % Live TV + SVOD 4.6 4.4 5 % Total Hulu(2) 48.5 47.2 3 % 40 Average Monthly Revenue Per Paid Subscriber(1) for the fiscal year ended: % Change 2023 2022 Better (Worse) Disney+ Domestic (U.S. and Canada) $ 6.97 $ 6.34 10 % International (excluding Disney+ Hotstar)(1) 5.93 6.10 (3)% Disney+ Core 6.39 6.22 3 % Disney+ Hotstar 0.66 0.88 (25)% Hulu SVOD Only 12.17 12.72 (4)% Live TV + SVOD 90.52 87.62 3 % (1) See discussion on page 66—DTC Product Descriptions, Key Definitions and Supplemental Information (2) Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding.
Hulu SVOD Only average monthly revenue per paid subscriber decreased from $12.72 to $12.17 due to lower advertising revenue, a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings and lower per-subscriber premium and feature add-on revenue, partially offset by an increase in average retail pricing.
Hulu Live TV + SVOD average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $87.62 to $90.52 due to an increase in average retail pricing, partially offset by lower advertising revenue, a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings and lower per-subscriber premium and feature add-on revenue.
Costs and Expenses Operating expenses are as follows: % Change ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Better (Worse) Programming and production costs Disney+ $ (5,674) $ (4,466) (27)% Hulu (8,265) (7,564) (9)% Other (20) (25) 20 % Total programming and production costs (13,959) (12,055) (16)% Other operating expense (3,900) (3,586) (9)% $ (17,859) $ (15,641) (14)% The increase in programming and production costs at Disney+ was attributable to more content provided on the service and higher costs per hour of non-sports content available on the service, partially offset by a decrease in sports programming costs reflecting the comparison to IPL cricket programming in the prior year.
The increase in programming and production costs at Hulu was due to higher subscriber-based fees for programming the Live TV service and higher costs per hour of content available on the service.
Higher subscriber-based fees for programming the Live TV service resulted from rate increases and an increase in the number of subscribers.
41 Operating Loss from Direct-to-Consumer Operating loss from Direct-to-Consumer decreased $928 million, to $2,496 million from $3,424 million due to a lower loss at Disney+ and, to a lesser extent, higher operating income at Hulu.
Content Sales/Licensing and Other Operating results for Content Sales/Licensing and Other are as follows: % Change ($ in millions) 2023 2022 Better (Worse) Revenues TV/VOD distribution $ 2,618 $ 3,520 (26)% Theatrical distribution 3,174 1,875 69 % Home entertainment distribution 931 1,083 (14)% Other 2,325 2,288 2 % Total revenues 9,048 8,766 3 % Operating expenses (6,280) (5,508) (14)% Selling, general, administrative and other (2,595) (2,610) 1 % Depreciation and amortization (347) (296) (17)% Equity in the income (loss) of investees (5) — nm Operating Income (Loss) $ (179) $ 352 nm Revenues The decrease in TV/VOD distribution revenue was due to lower sales volumes of both episodic and film content, in part driven by the impact of the shift from licensing our content to third parties to distributing it on our Entertainment Direct-to- Consumer streaming services.
Growth in subscription fees reflected increases of 19% from higher rates and 18% from more subscribers.
The following table presents additional information about ESPN+: September 30, October 1, % Change 2023 2022 Better (Worse) Paid subscribers at fiscal year end (in millions) 26.0 24.3 7 % Average Monthly Revenue per Paid Subscriber for the fiscal year $ 5.49 $ 4.80 14 % ESPN+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $4.80 to $5.49 due to an increase in retail pricing, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings.
The following table presents additional information about our Disney+ and Hulu product offerings.
Paid subscribers as of: October 1, October 2, % Change (in millions) 2022 2021 Better (Worse) Disney+ Domestic (U.S. and Canada) 46.4 38.8 20 % International (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) 56.5 36.0 57 % Disney+ Core(1) 102.9 74.8 38 % Disney+ Hotstar 61.3 43.3 42 % Hulu SVOD Only 42.8 39.7 8 % Live TV + SVOD 4.4 4.0 10 % Total Hulu(1) 47.2 43.7 8 % Average Monthly Revenue Per Paid Subscriber for the fiscal year ended: % Change 2022 2021 Better (Worse) Disney+ Domestic (U.S. and Canada) $ 6.34 $ 6.33 — % International (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) 6.10 5.31 15 % Disney+ Core 6.22 5.87 6 % Disney+ Hotstar 0.88 0.68 29 % Hulu SVOD Only 12.72 12.86 (1)% Live TV + SVOD 87.62 81.35 8 % (1) Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding Domestic Disney+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber was comparable to fiscal 2021, as an increase in retail pricing and a lower mix of wholesale subscribers was essentially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings.
Hulu SVOD Only average monthly revenue per paid subscriber decreased from $12.86 to $12.72 driven by lower per- subscriber advertising revenue, a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings and, to a lesser extent, to promotional offerings, partially offset by an increase in average retail pricing.
Hulu Live TV + SVOD average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $81.35 to $87.62 driven by an increase in average retail pricing and higher advertising revenue, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings.
The increase in programming and production costs at Hulu was due to more content provided on the service and higher subscriber-based fees for programming the Live TV service, which reflected rate increases and an increase in the number of subscribers.
Operating Loss from Direct-to-Consumer Operating loss from Direct-to-Consumer increased $2,172 million, to $3,424 million from $1,252 million due to a higher loss at Disney+ and, to a lesser extent, lower operating income at Hulu.
Content Sales/Licensing and Other Operating results for Content Sales/Licensing and Other are as follows: % Change ($ in millions) 2022 2021 Better (Worse) Revenues TV/VOD distribution $ 3,520 $ 3,925 (10)% Theatrical distribution 1,875 920 >100 % Home entertainment distribution 1,083 1,297 (16)% Other 2,288 1,795 27 % Total revenues 8,766 7,937 10 % Operating expenses (5,508) (4,536) (21)% Selling, general, administrative and other (2,610) (1,944) (34)% Depreciation and amortization (296) (294) (1)% Equity in the income of investees — 14 (100)% Operating Income $ 352 $ 1,177 (70)% Revenues The decrease in TV/VOD distribution revenue reflected lower sales volumes, which included the impact of the shift from licensing our content to third parties to distributing it on our Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer streaming services.
The increase in subscription fees was due to ESPN+ subscriber growth.
October 1, October 2, % Change (in millions) 2022 2021 Better (Worse) Paid subscribers at fiscal year end (in millions) 24.3 17.1 42 % Average Monthly Revenue per Paid Subscriber for the fiscal year $ 4.80 $ 4.57 5 % ESPN+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $4.57 to $4.80 primarily due to an increase in retail pricing, a lower mix of annual subscribers and higher advertising revenue, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings.
Programming costs include content rights licensed from third parties for use on the Company’s sports and general entertainment networks and DTC streaming services.
The increase in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was driven by higher technology spending to support our streaming services.
Upon a film’s release and determination of the theatrical performance, the Company’s estimates of revenues from succeeding windows and markets, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used on our DTC streaming services, are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends.
DTC PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS, KEY DEFINITIONS AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Product Offerings In the U.S., Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu SVOD Only are each offered as a standalone service or together as part of various multi-product offerings.
In certain Latin American countries, we offer Disney+ as well as Star+, a general entertainment SVOD service, which is available on a standalone basis or together with Disney+ (Combo+).
Depending on the market, our services can be purchased on our websites or through third-party platforms/apps or are available via wholesale arrangements.
Paid Subscribers Paid subscribers reflect subscribers for which we recognized subscription revenue.
Subscribers to multi-product offerings in the U.S. are counted as a paid subscriber for each service included in the multi-product offering and subscribers to Hulu Live TV + SVOD are counted as one paid subscriber for each of the Hulu Live TV + SVOD, Disney+ and ESPN+ services.
In Latin America, if a subscriber has either the standalone Disney+ or Star+ service or subscribes to Combo+, the subscriber is counted as one Disney+ paid subscriber.
Subscribers include those who receive a service through wholesale arrangements including those for which the service is distributed to each subscriber of an existing content distribution tier.
When we aggregate the total number of paid subscribers across our DTC streaming services, we refer to them as paid subscriptions.
Average Monthly Revenue Per Paid Subscriber Hulu and ESPN+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber is calculated based on the average of the monthly average paid subscribers for each month in the period.
Revenue includes subscription fees, advertising (excluding revenue earned from selling advertising spots to other Company businesses) and premium and feature add-on revenue but excludes Premier Access and Pay-Per-View revenue.
The average revenue per paid subscriber is net of discounts on offerings that carry more than one service.
Hulu Live TV + SVOD revenue is allocated to the SVOD services based on the wholesale price of the Hulu SVOD Only, Disney+ and ESPN+ multi-product offering.
In general, wholesale arrangements have a lower average monthly revenue per paid subscriber than subscribers that we acquire directly or through third-party platforms.
Supplemental information about paid subscribers(1): September 30, October 1, October 2, (in millions) 2023 2022 2021 Domestic (U.S. and Canada) standalone 55.5 60.4 65.4 Domestic (U.S. and Canada) multi-product(1) 22.6 19.4 11.4 78.1 79.7 76.9 International standalone (excluding Disney+ Hotstar)(2) 55.3 49.2 34.8 International multi-product(3) 10.8 7.2 1.2 66.1 56.5 36.0 Total(4) 144.2 136.2 112.9 (1) At September 30, 2023, there were 20.3 million and 2.3 million subscribers to three-service and two-service multi- product offerings, respectively.
At October 1, 2022, there were 18.7 million and 0.7 million subscribers to three- 66 service and two-service multi-product offerings, respectively.
At October 2, 2021, there were 11.4 million subscribers to three-service offerings and no subscribers to two-service offerings.
Fiscal 2022 and 2021 segment financial information has been recast for the following: • The prior Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution (DMED) segment has been reorganized into the Entertainment and Sports segments • A portion of Consumer Products (a business within the Experiences segment) revenues is recognized at the Entertainment segment, which is meant to reflect royalties on merchandise licensing revenues generated on IP created by the Entertainment segment DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS Entertainment The Entertainment segment generally encompasses the Company’s non-sports focused global film, television and direct- to-consumer (DTC) video streaming content production and distribution activities.
The significant lines of business within Entertainment are as follows: • Linear Networks ◦ Domestic: ABC Television Network; Disney, Freeform, FX and National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) branded television channels; and eight owned ABC television stations ◦ International: Disney, Fox (which will be rebranded in fiscal 2024 primarily to FX or Star), FX, National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) and Star branded general entertainment television networks outside of the U.S. ◦ A 50% equity investment in A+E Television Networks (A+E), which operates cable channels including A&E, HISTORY and Lifetime • Direct-to-Consumer ◦ Disney+: a global DTC service that primarily offers general entertainment and family programming.
cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top (e.g.
YouTube TV) service providers) (MVPDs) for the right to deliver our programming to their customers.
• Subscription fees - Fees charged to customers/subscribers for our DTC streaming services • Advertising - Sales of advertising time/space • TV/VOD distribution - Licensing fees for the right to use our film and episodic content • Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our films to theaters • Home entertainment distribution - Sales and rentals of our film and episodic content to retailers and through distributors • Other revenue - Revenues from licensing our music, ticket sales from stage play performances, fees from licensing our IP for use in stage plays, sales of post-production services and the allocation of consumer products merchandise licensing revenues The significant expenses of Entertainment are as follows: • Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor, distribution costs and costs of sales.
Programming and production costs include the following: ◦ Amortization of capitalized production costs ◦ Amortization of the costs of licensed programming rights ◦ Subscriber-based fees for programming our Hulu Live service, including fees paid by Hulu to the Sports segment and other Entertainment segment businesses for the right to air their linear networks on Hulu Live ◦ Production costs related to live programming (primarily news) ◦ Amortization of participations and residual obligations ◦ Fees paid to the Sports segment to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Star+ • Selling, general and administrative costs, including marketing costs • Depreciation and amortization Sports The Sports segment generally encompasses the Company’s sports-focused global television and DTC video streaming content production and distribution activities.
The significant lines of business within Sports are as follows: • ESPN (generally owned 80% by the Company) ◦ Domestic: ▪ Eight ESPN branded television channels ▪ ESPN on ABC (sports programmed on the ABC Network by ESPN) ▪ ESPN+ DTC video streaming service ◦ International: ESPN-branded channels outside of the U.S. • Star: Star-branded sports channels in India The significant revenues of Sports are as follows: • Affiliate fees • Advertising • Subscription fees • Other revenue - Fees from the following activities: pay-per-view events on ESPN+, sub-licensing of sports rights, programming ESPN on ABC and licensing the ESPN brand 87 The significant expenses of Sports are as follows: • Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs.
Because the content is functional IP, we had recognized substantially all of the consideration to be paid by the customer under the licenses as revenue in prior years when the content was delivered.
Affiliate agreements may also include a license to use the network programming for on demand viewing.
• Subscription fees are recognized ratably over the term of the subscription.
• TV/VOD distribution fixed license fees are recognized as revenue when the content is available for use by the licensee.
The decrease in advertising expense for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was due to lower spend for our DTC streaming services.
The increase in advertising expense for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was due to higher spend for our DTC streaming services and an increase in theatrical marketing costs.
subscription revenue for a DTC service or affiliate fees for a cable television network) The determination of the predominant monetization strategy is made at commencement of production on a consolidated basis and is based on the means by which we derive third-party revenues from use of the content.
We generally classify content that is initially intended for use on our DTC streaming services or Linear Networks as group assets.
We generally classify content initially intended for theatrical release or for sale to third-party licensees as individual assets.
content that was initially intended for license to a third party is instead used on an owned DTC service).
For film productions, Ultimate Revenues include revenues from all sources, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used on our DTC streaming services, that will be earned within ten years from the date of the initial release for theatrical films.
Licensed rights to film and television content and other programs for broadcast on our Linear Networks, domestic ESPN television network, International Sports Channels or DTC streaming services are expensed on an accelerated or straight-line basis over their useful life or over the number of times the program is expected to be aired, as appropriate.
Acquired film and television libraries are generally amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years from the date of acquisition.
Acquired film and television libraries include content that was initially released three years prior to its acquisition, except it excludes the prior seasons of episodic programming still in production at the date of its acquisition.
Content Production Incentives The Company receives tax incentives from U.S. (state and local) and foreign government agencies to encourage the production of film, episodic and streaming content.
Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Contributions from Noncontrolling Interest Holders Hulu LLC The Company consolidates the results of Hulu LLC (Hulu), a DTC streaming service provider, which is owned 67% by the Company and 33% by NBC Universal (NBCU).
Amounts deferred generally relate to theme park admissions and vacation packages, DTC subscriptions and advances related to merchandise and TV/VOD licenses.
At September 30, 2023, acquired film and television library content has remaining unamortized costs of $3.1 billion, which are generally being amortized straight-line over a weighted-average remaining period of approximately 15 years.
128 18 Restructuring and Impairment Charges Content Impairment As a result of our strategic change in approach to content curation, we removed content from our Entertainment Direct-to- Consumer services and terminated certain third-party license agreements for the right to use content primarily on our Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer platforms.
The Media Industry Peers is a custom index consisting of, in addition to The Walt Disney Company, media enterprises Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, AT&T, Comcast, Meta Platforms, Netflix, Paramount and Warner Bros.
REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT Computershare Attention: Disney Shareholder Services D. Jeremy Darroch Hugh F. Johnston P.O.