Second, we will prioritize helping our customers get the most value out of their digital spend, so that they can do more with less.
With that context, this quarter, the Microsoft Cloud again exceeded $25 billion in quarterly revenue, up 24 percent and 31 percent in constant currency.
With that, let me highlight our progress, starting with Azure.
Moving to the cloud is the best way for organizations to do more with less today.
We’re also seeing more customers turn to us to build and innovate with infrastructure they already have.
With Azure Arc, organizations like Wells Fargo can run Azure services – including containerized applications – across on-premises, edge, and multi- cloud environments.
We are the platform of choice for customers’ SAP workloads in the cloud.
Companies like Chobani, Munich RE, Sodexo, Volvo Cars all run SAP on Azure.
We are the only cloud provider with direct and secure access to Oracle databases running in Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, making it possible for companies like FedEx, GE, and Marriott to use capabilities from both companies.
And, with Azure Confidential Computing, we’re enabling companies in highly regulated industries, including RBC, to bring their most sensitive applications to the cloud.
With our Microsoft Intelligent Data Platform, we provide a complete data fabric, helping customers cut “integration tax” associated with bringing together siloed solutions.
Cosmos DB is the go-to database powering the world’s most-demanding workloads, at limitless scale.
Cosmos DB now supports PostgreSQL, making Azure the first cloud provider to offer a database service that supports both relational and NoSQL workloads.
Earlier this month, we brought the power of Dall-E to Azure OpenAI service, helping customers like Mattel apply the breakthrough image generation model to commercial use cases for the first time.
And Azure Machine Learning provides industry leading MLOps, helping organizations like 3M deploy, manage, and govern models.
All-up, Azure ML revenue has increased more than 100 percent for four quarters in a row.
We have the most complete platform for developers to build cloud-native applications.
More than 90 million people now use the service to build software for any cloud and any platform, up 3 times.
We’re helping customers save time and money with our end-to-end suite, spanning low-code/no-code tools, robotic process automation, virtual agents, and business intelligence.
Power BI is the market leader in business intelligence in the cloud and is growing faster than competition, as companies like Walmart standardize on the tool for reporting and analytics.
Power Apps is the market leader in low-code/no-code tools and has nearly 15 million monthly active users, up more than 50 percent compared to a year ago.
Power Automate has over 7 million monthly active users, and is being used by companies like Brown-Forman, Komatsu, Mars, T-Mobile to digitize manual business processes and save thousands of hours of employee time.
All-up, more than 400,000 organizations now use our business applications.
We’re seeing increased adoption of our industry and cross-industry clouds.
Bank of Queensland chose our Cloud for Financial Services to deliver new digital experiences for its customers.
Our Cloud for Sustainability is off to a fast start, as organizations like Telstra use the solution to track their environmental footprint.
Microsoft 365, Teams, and Viva uniquely enable employees to thrive in today’s digitally connected, distributed world of work.
Microsoft 365 is the cloud-first platform that supports all the ways people work and every type of worker, reducing cost and complexity for IT.
The new Microsoft 365 app brings together our productivity apps with third-party content, as well as personalized recommendations.
Microsoft Teams is the de facto standard for collaboration and has become essential to how hundreds of millions of people meet, call, chat, collaborate, and do business.
In a typical day, the average commercial user spends more time in Teams chat than they do in e-mail, and the number of users who use four or more features within Teams increased over 20 percent year over year.
Monthly active enterprise users running third party and custom applications within Teams increased nearly 60 percent year over year.
And, over 55 percent of our enterprise customers who use Teams today also buy Teams Rooms or Teams Phone.
And we’re creating a new category with Microsoft Places to help organizations evolve and manage their space for hybrid and in-person work.
We also announced Teams Premium, addressing enterprise demands for advanced meeting features, like additional security options and intelligent meeting recaps.
All this innovation is driving growth across Microsoft 365.
Leaders in every industry, from Fannie Mae and Land O’Lakes to Rabobank, continue to turn to our premium E5 offerings for advanced security, compliance, voice, and analytics.
We’ve also built a completely new suite with our employee experience platform Microsoft Viva, which now has more than 20 million monthly active users at companies like Finastra, SES, and Unilever.
Viva Sales is helping salespeople at companies like Adobe, Crayon, and PwC reclaim their time by bringing customer interactions across Teams and Outlook directly into their CRM system.
We are the only company with integrated, end-to-end tools spanning security, compliance, identity, and device management, and privacy across all clouds and platforms.
More than 860,000 organizations across every industry – from BP and Fujifilm, to ING Bank, iHeart Media, and Lumen Technologies – now use our security solutions, up 33 percent year over year.
They can save up to 60 percent when they consolidate on our security stack, and the number of customers with more than 4 workloads have increased 50 percent year over year.
More organizations are choosing both our XDR and cloud-native SIEM to secure their entire digital estate.
And Entra now provides comprehensive identity governance for both on- premises and cloud-based user directories.
More broadly, with Microsoft Advertising, we offer a trusted platform for any marketer or advertiser looking to innovate.
We’re adding new gamers to our ecosystem, as we execute on our ambition to reach players wherever and whenever they want, on any device.
We saw usage growth across all platforms, driven by strength off-console.
PC Game Pass subscriptions increased 159 percent year over year.
And with Cloud Gaming, we’re transforming how games are distributed, played, and viewed.
More than 20 million people have used the service to stream games to date.
And, as we look towards the holidays, we offer the best value in gaming, with Game Pass, and Xbox Series S. Nearly half of the Series S buyers are new to our ecosystem.
In our consumer business, PC market demand further deteriorated in September, which impacted our Windows OEM and Surface businesses.
As you heard from Satya, in our commercial business, we saw strong overall demand for our Microsoft Cloud offerings, with growth of 31 percent in constant currency as well as share gains across many businesses.
Excluding the FX impact, growth was driven by strong renewal execution and we continued to see growth in the number of large, long-term Azure and Microsoft 365 contracts across all deal sizes.
More than half of the 10-million-dollar-plus Microsoft 365 bookings came from E5.
And at a segment level, FX decreased Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud revenue growth by 6 points, and More Personal Computing revenue growth by 3 points.
Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased roughly 2 points year- over-year to 73 percent.
Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate for useful lives, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage decreased roughly 1 point driven by sales mix shift to Azure and lower Azure margin, primarily due to higher energy costs.
Excluding the impact of the latest change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage decreased roughly 3 points driven by sales mix shift to cloud, the lower Azure margin noted earlier, and Nuance.
Operating expense increased 15 percent and 18 percent in constant currency driven by investments in cloud engineering, LinkedIn, Nuance and commercial sales.
Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, operating margins declined roughly 4 points year-over-year driven by sales mix shift to cloud, unfavorable FX impact, Nuance, and the lower Azure margin noted earlier.
Office 365 commercial revenue increased 11 percent and 17 percent in constant currency, slightly better than expected with the strong renewal execution noted earlier.
Demand for security, compliance, and voice value in Microsoft 365 drove strong E5 momentum again this quarter.
Paid Office 365 commercial seats grew 14 percent year-over-year, driven by our small and medium business and frontline worker offerings – although we saw continued impact of new deal moderation outside of E5.
Office consumer revenue grew 7 percent and 11 percent in constant currency driven by continued momentum in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, which grew 13 percent to 61.3 million.
Excluding the impact of the latest change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by sales mix shift to cloud offerings.
Overall, server products and cloud services revenue increased 22 percent and 28 percent in constant currency.
Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 35 percent and 42 percent in constant currency, about a point lower than expected – driven by the continued moderation in Azure consumption growth, as we help customers optimize current workloads while they prioritize new workloads.
Windows commercial products and cloud services revenue grew 8 percent and 15 percent in constant currency, in line with expectations, driven by demand for Microsoft 365 E5 noted earlier.
Xbox content and services revenue declined 3 percent and increased 1 percent in constant currency, driven by declines in first-party content as well as in third-party content, where we had lower engagement hours and higher monetization, partially offset by growth in Xbox Game Pass subscriptions.
Our data center investments continue to be based on strong customer demand and usage signals.
Within the segments, we anticipate roughly 7 points of negative FX impact on revenue growth in Productivity and Business Processes, 6 points in Intelligent Cloud and 3 points in More Personal Computing.
In our commercial business demand for our differentiated hybrid and cloud offerings together with consistent execution should drive healthy growth across the Microsoft Cloud.
In commercial bookings, continued strong execution across core annuity sales motions and commitments to our platform should drive solid growth on a moderately growing expiry base, against a strong prior year comparable which included a significant volume of large, long-term Azure contracts.
As a reminder, the growing mix of larger long-term Azure contracts, which are more unpredictable in their timing, always drives increased quarterly volatility in our bookings growth rate.
In capital expenditures, we expect a sequential increase on a dollar basis with normal quarterly spend variability in the timing of our cloud infrastructure buildout.
In Office Commercial, revenue growth will again be driven by Office 365 with seat growth across customer segments and ARPU growth thru E5.
We expect Office 365 revenue growth to be similar to last quarter on a constant currency basis.
In our on-premises business we expect revenue to decline in the low-to-mid 30s.
In Office consumer, we expect revenue to decline low to mid-single digits, as Microsoft 365 subscription growth will be more than offset by unfavorable FX impact.
For Intelligent Cloud we expect revenue to grow between 22 and 24 percent in constant currency or $21.25 to $21.55 billion US dollars.
Revenue will continue to be driven by Azure which, as a reminder, can have quarterly variability primarily from our per-user business and from in- period revenue recognition depending on the mix of contracts.
Azure revenue will continue to be driven by strong growth in consumption with some impact from the Q1 trends noted earlier.
And our per-user business should continue to benefit from Microsoft 365 suite momentum, though we expect moderation in growth rates given the size of the installed base.
Excluding the impact from the Windows 11 revenue deferral last year, revenue would decline mid-30s reflecting both PC market demand and a strong prior year comparable, particularly in the commercial segment.
In Devices, revenue should decline approximately 30 percent, again roughly in line with the PC market.
In Windows commercial products and cloud services, customer demand for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security solutions should drive growth in the mid-single digits or low double digits in constant currency.
And in Gaming, we expect revenue to decline in the low-to-mid teens against a strong prior year comparable that included several first-party title launches, partially offset by growth in Xbox Game Pass subscribers.
We expect Xbox content and services revenue to decline in the low-to-mid- teens.
Revenue will be driven by around 20 percent constant currency growth in our commercial business driven by strong demand for our Microsoft Cloud offerings.
With the high margins in our Windows OEM business and the cyclical nature of the PC market, we take a long-term approach to investing in our core strategic growth areas and maintain these investment levels regardless of PC market conditions.
In closing, in this environment it is more critical than ever to continue to invest in our strategic growth markets such as Cloud, security, Teams, Dynamics 365, and LinkedIn where we have opportunities to continue to gain share as we provide problem-solving innovations to our customers.
And how should we think about Azure growth, like the glide path for the full year?
We rely on partners to help customers do those same optimizations and prepare workloads.
But if you step back and say, this is how you drive ultimate share gains, and build customer loyalty and help customers grow, I think that needs to be the focus of our teams inside the company, and also the partners that we rely on to help customers do that as well.
I’d like to follow up on the last question on Azure specifically.
Maybe this is a chance to talk a little bit about Microsoft 365.
In Microsoft 365, what you saw was very good renewal execution.
And it speaks to, I think, the value people are seeing in Microsoft.
What is it that’s enabling you to innovate so rapidly and essentially to be first to market?
And then as a quick follow-up, Amy, you did mention the lower margins in Azure due to the higher energy costs.
And of course, we then productize it as part of Azure OpenAI Services.
The AI moment clearly has arrived and it’s going to be part of every product, whether it’s – in fact, you mentioned our Power Platform, because that’s another area where we’re innovating in terms of incorporating all of these AI models.
And with all the work that you’re doing with E3, E5 and collaboration security analytics, might we see more of the growth coming from ASP versus subscriber growth over time?
Satya or Amy, as a follow up on Azure, I’m curious how you foresee the magnitude of two different variables on cloud computing demand over that near to medium term, the first being economic pressures on the willingness of some customers to spend, and the second being the impact of the spiking energy cost perhaps as a facilitator for some to do more in the cloud.
The thing, though, from a customer perspective, the best way for them to align their spend with what is uncertain demand is to move to the cloud.
The big winner in all of this will be public cloud, because public cloud helps businesses offset the risk of taking demand risk.
That’s where I think a little bit of, as you all think about what happens to cloud, for us, we look at this and say, this is a period where cloud’s going to gain share, because we’re still in the early innings of adoption.
What is the broader Microsoft advertising ambitions maybe three-to-five years here, given these are very large and very profitable segments that Microsoft has not historically focused on?
So, those would be the three areas, LinkedIn, our owned-and-operated advertising, both Search and Feed, as well as third-party ad network.