Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich Cohen BofA Securities, Research Division And in terms of content, how much original content -- do you have to run out, like at a certain point in time, you probably will.
So we've done a good job at building those features, we think, but also in a way that balances those user considerations Copyright © 2023 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 5 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2023 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY | JUL 19, 2023 with making sure that Netflix was able to get reasonably paid when we delivered entertainment to someone.
Like how many more members versus subscribers, your subscriber numbers were great this quarter, but there are also add-ons to households.
But if we step back on thinking about our revenue growth and components overall or within a given region, it's driven by a combination of pricing, volume and new revenue streams like ads.
For ads, that new revenue stream, we've expected a gradual revenue build, and so that's not expected to be a big contributor this year.
So UCAN is a little bit more benefit from ads per since it's a bigger advertising market, but still very, very small overall because it's still nascent to the business.
Is the response that you -- more people go to the advertising tier?
One goal is we want to give consumers access across a wide range of price points so that more people around the world can enjoy the great stories that team is doing.
That means the appropriate spread of prices and the appropriate corresponding futures, including ads, no ads, video quality, number of simultaneous streams, and we'll seek to actually add to that list of features over a period of time.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2023 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY | JUL 19, 2023 This latest move reflects what we think will best achieve those goals in the countries that we launched it in U.S., U.K. and Canada.
So in terms of the specific effects that you're talking about, it's pretty much what you would expect, which is when we drop that basic tier, folks that would have signed up for that tier essentially sort into 2 tiers.
They either take the ads plan, which is that really low attractive entry-level price or they move into the standard plan.
So they're behaving in terms of retention characteristics, churn characteristics like more higher tenure subscribers, which is good.
And how does that play out with -- as you think about the to move out of the basic ad-free tier as you mentioned in Canada and a couple of other countries as of today and also as we build our ads.
I mean we haven't changed our long-term pricing philosophy and it will benefit from ads and the extra members that you mentioned.
We're still only a small percentage of our members are on the ads tier even with the moves we just mentioned, nice growth in the ads tier but still off a small base.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2023 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY | JUL 19, 2023 Moving on to advertising.
I mean one of the things you talked about in the upfront was like offering advertisers the ability to go into the top 10, which is -- provides an incredible reach a guaranteed reach really every -- all the time.
Job #2 is we've got a really solid list of advertiser-facing features that are not in that innovation category that are really more following a well-trodden path.
I'd actually include in that bucket building out our go-to- market and sales capabilities in every country so that we can serve more advertisers and serve them more effectively.
And then we get to a little bit what you're talking about, which is an opportunity over time to really think about our offering, both in terms of unique capabilities that we can deliver that blend TV with properties of digital advertising and also work at the interface of the user experience and the ads experiencing.
And that really leverages the core capabilities that we've used for a long, long period of time of UX testing, iterative development, data-driven personalization to establish over time, a leadership position in defining what is the premium ads experience on CTV.
I think that, that is a creative way to think about how we give advertisers a different way to have essentially a guaranteed participation in the most popular shows, most popular films at any given moment on Netflix.
Our overall ads ARM continues to be higher than basic ad free globally, same as statement on standard in terms of standard where the ads higher than standard ad free in the U.S. And so generally, we're just -- we're pleased with our per member ad economics and continue to feel really good about the opportunity to grow the ads plan, the ads offering good for members, good for our business.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2023 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY | JUL 19, 2023 Can you tell us about your initial upfront advertising performance?
I mean, you seem to have everything advertisers are looking for.
But this is a really tepid overall advertising environment.
It's -- first of all, it's great to be able to have an opportunity to meet with so many advertisers in a concentrated period and hear what they need from us.
And so that's helpful to synthesize what are our top requirements and how can we better support those advertisers.
But our job really now is to add as quickly as we can advertiser features that meet their needs so that we can make that -- our offering more attractive as we scale that inventory up.
And we're working in collaboration essentially in a priority order when we see back to that what are advertisers telling us they need.
But -- and as you say, there's a lot of branded TV ad dollars that are -- that we set our sights on over time because we think we're a great ecosystem and environment to collect that demand, but we have to prove it out over time.
There's a lot of dollars looking for great consumers to connect with, and we think we can provide that solution.
So we're seeing good engagement across all of our tiers, good engagements across our ads plan as well.
No, the thing to keep in mind is that a streaming continues to grow.
So it's 37% of TV time now in the U.S. And then we continue to grow our share of streaming in that growing space, even though it's very, very competitive.
So as we put those things together, there's an enormous opportunity as eyeballs increasingly move to streaming.
And they -- or by the way, they're moving to streaming because this is where the consumer demand is running.
Basically, the consumers are long away from this notion of the linear grid dictating what they can watch and where they can watch it and how they can watch it and the demand is on us to deliver on streaming and high-quality content that they love.
And our ability to monetize it both through pure subscription and through advertising if they choose to do so, is really dependent on us having the content that they're excited about, day in and day out, week in and week out and in every country in the world.
And just the foundation of our attractiveness to advertisers is ultimately our reach, this high-level engagement and amazing titles, TV shows and films like Ted mentioned in the top 10 that they want to have their brands next to them.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 12 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2023 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY | JUL 19, 2023 Well, what you've seen is -- and what we talked about when our revenue had slowed down in early '22 is that we would keep our content -- our cash content spend roughly flat.
And we talked about it in the letter too, what that works out to is roughly about 1.1 ratio in terms of our cash content spend relative to our content expense.
And then as we prove out revenue acceleration, which we expect to do and as we've guided to, to start in Q3 and then further in Q4, we hope to start ticking up our cash spend on content again and doing it in a healthy way.
Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich Cohen BofA Securities, Research Division But would your content spend very measured, let's put it that way, and you're kind of maybe investing in ad tech capabilities.
And so we're mostly looking at when we look at our M&A activity would be mostly around IP that we can develop into great content for our members, which is our real strength in business.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2023 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY | JUL 19, 2023 So that's -- I would think we have traditionally been very strong builders over buyers, and that really hasn't fundamentally changed.
Would you consider selling your library content to others?
And then almost anywhere else we put it, there's either a crossover and they otherwise have Netflix account or a much smaller viewing base.
So we're -- we think we're taking the right course in terms of offering the content to our members and having it around even after its original run on Netflix.
So the syndication market, home video markets that continue to exist today are kind of contracting in a way that isn't too exciting to build up against versus this opportunity we have with please our members and thrill our members with our content all the way back through the history of our content and the opportunity, we've also seen things like when Extraction 2 just did so well for us this past quarter, Extraction 1 was popped right back up into the top 10.
So we really think that we can have a really strong offering for sports fans on Netflix without having to be part of the difficulty of the economic model of live sports licensing.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 15 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2023 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY | JUL 19, 2023 Copyright © 2023 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.