We’re delivering progress on a number of fronts, including a reduction in streaming operating losses this quarter, and I am very optimistic about our direct-to-consumer business longer term.
As I think about our path forward in streaming, we have a number of clear opportunities to further position our DTC business for success.
First, as a significant step toward creating a growth business, I’m pleased to announce that we will soon begin offering a one-app experience domestically that incorporates our Hulu content via Disney+.
And while we will continue to offer Disney+, Hulu and ESPN+ as stand-alone options, this is a logical progression of our DTC offerings that will provide greater opportunities for advertisers, while giving bundle subscribers access to more robust and streamlined content, resulting in greater audience engagement and ultimately leading to a more unified streaming experience.
Over 40 percent of our domestic advertising portfolio is addressable, including streaming, which we expect will continue to grow over time.
We’ve added more than 1,000 advertisers over the past year, and now have 5,000 advertisers across our streaming platforms, with over a third buying advertising programmatically today.
As we look to the future, we will continue optimizing our pricing model to reward loyalty and reduce churn, increase subscriber revenue for the premium ad-free tier, and drive growth of subscribers who opt for the lower-cost, ad-supported option.
Additionally, I’d like to share a few other key areas where we see opportunities for improvements in our streaming business.
First, it’s critical that we rationalize the volume of content we’re creating and what we’re spending to produce our content.
Second, our legacy platforms enable us to expand our audiences and often augment our potential streaming success while at the same time allowing us to amortize our content costs across multiple windows.
Page 5 Q2 FY23 Earnings Conference Call May 10, 2023 All of these factors combined are why we are confident that we are on the right path for streaming’s long-term profitability – the strength of our content; the one app experience and the enormous advertising potential that comes with it; rationalizing the volume of content we make and what we’re spending; maximizing windowing opportunities; recalibrating our investments internationally; perfecting our pricing model; and consolidating our global streaming business under the leadership of Disney Entertainment co-Chairmen Alan Bergman and Dana Walden.
We are doing the essential work now to position our streaming business for sustained growth and success in the future.
And now, with greater integration of our touchpoints with consumers, especially streaming, we are able to be more efficient – and more successful ¬– in reaching the right audiences with the right offerings from across our businesses.
We are in the process of reviewing the content on our DTC services, to align with the strategic changes in our approach to content curation that you’ve heard Bob discuss.
As a result, we will be removing certain content from our streaming platforms, and currently expect to take an impairment charge of approximately $1.5 to $1.8 billion.
Our Direct-to-Consumer operating results in Q2 outperformed our guidance by about $200 million, due in part to timing shifts of marketing expenses driven by recent slate changes at Disney+ and Hulu.
And in fact, as we look to this Upfront, and after careful and considerable discussion with our sales team led by Rita Ferro, we see that there's going to be a substantial growth in digital advertising in this Upfront.
Suggesting, for the obvious reason because digital advertising is so attractive to advertisers, that there's an opportunity for us to really lean in to ad-supported.
That comes in two categories: content spend and SG&A.
Clearly, again, the price increases, the – pushing more viewers – sorry, more subscribers to the ad-supported and the cost containment are among the things we're doing to get to profitability.
And not only did we launch in those markets, we spent a lot of money on marketing in those markets and we spent money on local content.
Bob, first for you is what do you think the impact of the slowdown in your DTC content spending will have on global subscriber growth?
Any help there on future cash content spending would be helpful.
And we wanted to flood the so-called digital shelves with as much content as possible to achieve obviously as much sub growth as possible.
And one interesting example – and I should also throw marketing in too – where when you make a lot of content, everything needs to be marketed.
Specifically, we're learning a lot more about how our content behaves on the service and what it is consumers want.
Bob, you mentioned that in the Upfront, you will take a bigger share – I mean, you'll lean heavily into digital with AVOD.
We haven't really changed our position regarding basically migrating ESPN's flagship service as a direct-to-consumer streaming platform.
And that's forcing us to take a look at the cost structure of those channels, which ultimately comes down probably more than anything to spending on programming.
But the declines that we're seeing put even more pressure on us to turn that streaming business into a profitable growth business for us.
With automated sales functionality and delivering in a very, very granular way exactly what advertisers want.
So we're very bullish about leaning into digital advertising.
We think that by making Hulu available as a one-app experience, we'll increase engagement and increase our opportunity in terms of serving digital ads and growing our advertising business.
The growth and the need to grow streaming as a reaction to the deterioration of linear businesses.
Bob, on Hulu, the revenues of Hulu make it one of the biggest streaming businesses around.
Bob Iger – Chief Executive Officer, The Walt Disney Company Kannan, as you know, we have a contractual arrangement with Comcast that will enable them to put their share of Hulu back to us in early 2024.
From a subscriber perspective – from a subscriber acquisition, subscriber retention perspective.
So where we are headed is for one experience that would have general entertainment and Disney+ content together for every – the reasons that I just described.
And if ultimately, Hulu is that solution, that's – we're bullish about that.
I wanted to ask one on direct-to-consumer advertising.
Bob, integrating Hulu into the Disney+ app is intriguing, so I wanted to continue that conversation.
Is that still the right approach, to have multiple services to give consumer choice?
And I'm just curious if you see the opportunity to broaden the number of subscriptions that can live on that Disney+ platform or if you can expand the monetization of that platform in other ways, while maintaining a premium experience for consumers.
And if I could just add one for Christine, is fiscal 3Q the peak for streaming losses?
It's a bigger platform, basically more content than it offered before.
But that includes quality, curated general entertainment for the purpose of growing advertising, growing subscriber fees, growing engagement, growing – lessening churn.