Subscriber net Premium Subscribers 182 205 210 15% 2% additions of 5 million also reflected a material uptick vs. Ad-Supported MAUs 252 295 317 26% 7% the prior year trend and were 3 million above guidance.
3 Key Highlights Record high Q1 MAU growth 14% Y/Y Revenue growth and Multiple updates to the of 26 million net additions 25.2% Gross Margin Spotify experience unveiled at Stream On ● MAUs grew 22% Y/Y to 515 million, ● Total Revenue grew 14% Y/Y ● Launched the beta version of AI DJ 15 million above guidance.
8 Revenue Consistent Premium growth, led by subscribers Premium Revenue grew 14% Y/Y to €2,713 million (or 13% Y/Y constant currency, comparable to Q4’22 performance), reflecting subscriber growth of 15% Y/Y and Premium ARPU¹ decline of 1% Y/Y to €4.32 (or down 2% constant currency).
Broad based Ad-Supported growth Ad-Supported revenue grew 17% Y/Y with double-digit Y/Y growth across nearly all regions.
Music advertising revenue grew low double-digits Y/Y, reflecting double-digit Y/Y growth in impressions sold, partially offset by softer pricing due to the current macroeconomic environment.
Podcast revenue grew nearly 20% Y/Y, driven by Original and Exclusive podcasts where sold impressions grew strong double-digits and CPMs increased high single-digits.
The Spotify Audience Network saw double digit Q/Q growth in participating publishers and shows.
9 Gross Margin Marketplace and podcasting benefits offset by higher Other Cost of Revenue Gross Margin finished at 25.2% in Q1, flat Y/Y.
Premium Gross Margin was 28.6% in Q1, up Ad-Supported Gross Margin was (3.0)% The Y/Y trend reflects improved music 23bps Y/Y.
The Y/Y trend profitability and improving podcast profitability, improvement in Premium profitability (aided reflects improving Ad-supported music and which were offset by Other Cost of Revenue.
podcast profitability, offset by higher Other Cost of Revenue.
12 MAUS & SUBSCRIBERS 13 Monthly Active Users (MAUs) Total MAUs grew 22% Y/Y to 515 million, up from 489 million last quarter and above our guidance by 15 million.
Quarterly performance versus our guidance was impacted by: ● Outperformance across all regions driven by reactivations and a Q/Q decrease in Ad-Supported MAU churn ● Record Q1 net additions in nearly all age demographics across both developed and developing markets ● Continued momentum as a result of increased brand awareness, retention improvements and performance marketing efficiencies 14 Premium Subscribers Our Premium Subscribers grew 15% Y/Y to 210 million, up from 205 million last quarter.
Quarterly performance versus our guidance was impacted by: ● Outperformance across all regions, led by Europe and Latin America ● Higher top-of-funnel growth driving increased subscribers ● Regional campaign outperformance and continued strength in multi-user plans 15 PRODUCT & PLATFORM 16 AI DJ Launch During the quarter, we launched a beta version of AI DJ to users in North America to allow for deeper discovery and personalization.
The DJ currently attracts millions of active users each week, representing more than 25% of user consumption on days when they listen to the DJ.
17 2023 Stream On Creator Highlights Announced ways to help artists Invited new listeners and fans to Created a one-stop-shop for creators Enhanced podcast monetization amplify their content with campaign connect with artists and build fandom to access our tools, including opportunities with our new Patreon and audience development tools with the launch of Countdown in-depth analytics and the feature set partnership announcement which such as Showcase and Discovery Pages, Spotify Clips and concert of our podcast creation platform, allows podcasters to offer Mode self-serve.
Anchor, with our newly relaunched Patreon-exclusive content to Spotify for Podcasters platform.
18 Redesigned Spotify User Experience At Stream On, we announced one of the biggest changes to our user experience.
With this new design, we’re giving fans an even more active role in the audio discovery process and giving creators even more space to share their work.
Powered by advanced recommendations, new visual canvases and a completely new and interactive design, we’re making discovering new audio easier than ever before, helping introduce users to their next favorite artist, podcast or book.
19 Podcasting Announced a multiyear exclusive video Brought British journalist Louis Two new publishers join the Revealed that Forbidden Fruits partnership with Markiplier for Theroux to the platform with the Spotify Audience Network: NPR with Julia Fox and Niki Takesh will Distractible and Go!
Spotify original podcast, the episodes will be released as an Louis Theroux Podcast.
Total MAUs 530 million Implies the addition of approximately 15 million net new MAUs in the quarter Total Premium Subscribers 217 million Implies the addition of approximately 7 million net new subscribers in the quarter Assumes approximately 300 bps headwind to growth Y/Y due to foreign exchange rate Total Revenue €3.2 billion movements Reflects Y/Y improvement in music and podcasting and the lapping of last year’s Car Thing Gross Margin 25.5% charge and changes in prior period estimates for rightsholder liabilities Assumes approximately 200 bps benefit to Operating Expense growth Y/Y due to foreign Operating (Loss)/Income €(129) million exchange movements 23 Webcast Information We will host a live question and answer session starting at 8:00 a.m.
Daniel Ek, our Founder and CEO, and Paul Vogel, our Chief Financial Officer, will be on hand to answer questions submitted through slido.com using the event code #SpotifyEarningsQ123.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: https://conferencingportals.com/event/txExvogt We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.