Let me share some more context on the growth this quarter before we go into what it ultimately means for the business.
This quarter netted the highest MAU growth in Spotify’s history.
This reacceleration is significant and shows that our investments in adding podcasts and improving our platform and user experience are paying off nicely.
I have talked before about the fact that the biggest driver of our subscriber growth comes from users who start on our ad-supported service.
It’s a powerful funnel, where the more our users discover and engage, the more they’re willing to pay for an enhanced experience.
With six quarters of MAU outperformance, we are capitalizing on this momentum and it’s proving to have a meaningful effect – helping us achieve 10 million net new subscribers this quarter.
There are three ways for us to drive revenue growth: growing our users, creating new businesses with new revenue streams, and increasing revenue per user.
Our preference among them is to focus on growing the overall number of consumers on our platform, as this gives us scale advantages and retains optionality for the future.
We’ve expanded value to price significantly by meaningfully improving our content offering, and we continue to enhance the user experience and lower churn.
This experience coupled with our strong offering, puts Spotify in an excellent position to make this move.
While this won’t impact revenue per user much until the end of Q3, we expect it to have a meaningful impact on Q4 and beyond.
Overall, our User and Subscriber growth was exceptionally strong in the quarter.
Users grew by 36 million to 551 million while we added 10 million new Subscribers finishing at 220 million.
Both MAU and Subscriber growth accelerated from Q1, driving the highest quarterly User growth in our history and the best Q2 for Subscribers on record.
In the quarter, we took steps to shrink our real estate footprint and rationalized certain areas of our podcasting business.
First, looking at user and subscriber growth, we have had an outstanding start to the year and we see momentum continuing into the back half of the year.
And to address a likely question right up front with respect to price increases and subscriber growth…our data would suggest that historical price increases have had minimal impact on growth, but given the breadth of this change and the significant outperformance in the first half of the year, there is some conservatism baked into our outlook for Q3.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ223.
It was a great – and historic – quarter for Spotify, and I am energized by our growth and continued outperformance.
Thank you for joining us, and as usual, feel free to check out our For the Record podcast, which will be released later today.