They are our film studios, our parks business and streaming, all of which are inextricably linked to our brands and franchises.
And we're maximizing the full impact of our titles by embracing the multiple distribution windows at our disposal, enabling consumers to access our content in multiple ways.
Page 3 Q3 FY23 Earnings Conference Call August 9, 2023 By focusing on big franchises and tentpole films, we're able to generate interest in our existing library.
The third area that will drive growth and value creation for Disney is our direct-to-consumer business.
When you consider our path to profitability in streaming, it’s important to remember where we started and how we’ve adapted based on what we’ve learned.
We’re prioritizing the strength of our brands and Page 5 Q3 FY23 Earnings Conference Call August 9, 2023 franchises; we’re rationalizing the volume of content we make, what we spend, and what markets we invest in; we are deploying the technology necessary to both improve the user experience as well as the economics of this business; we’re harnessing windowing opportunities, perfecting our pricing and marketing strategies, maximizing our enormous advertising potential; and we’re making extensive Hulu content available to bundle subscribers via Disney+.
As I announced last quarter, we’re moving closer toward a more unified one-app experience domestically, to pair high-quality general entertainment with content from our popular brands and franchises for our bundle subscribers.
We see a future where consumers can access even more of the company’s streaming content all in one place, resulting in higher user engagement, lower churn, and greater opportunities for advertisers.
Later today we will release details regarding upcoming streaming price increases.
Maintaining access to our content for as broad an audience as possible is top-of-mind for us, which is why pricing for our standalone ad-supported Disney+ and Hulu offerings will remain unchanged.
I’d also like to note that we are actively exploring ways to address account sharing and the best options for paying subscribers to share their accounts with friends and family.
Taking our ESPN flagship channels direct to consumer is not a matter of if, but when.
However, we’re fortunate to have an array of extremely productive television studios that we will rely on to continue providing exceptional content for audiences well into the future.
Hulu and ESPN+ subscribers were roughly comparable to Q2.
In Q4, we expect DTC ad revenue to continue to benefit from higher advertiser demand at Hulu as well as from the ramp-up of the Disney+ ad tier.
I'm curious, though, what the practical considerations are of separating assets like ABC, National Geographic or others from both ESPN or sports or integrated or from Hulu, which is kind of the next-generation distribution platform.
Page 14 Q3 FY23 Earnings Conference Call August 9, 2023 Bob Iger – Chief Executive Officer, The Walt Disney Company Clearly, if we are to do anything significant in terms of, call it, strategic direction for the linear nets, we have to keep in mind the need for content to ultimately fuel our DTC businesses, notably and as you mentioned Hulu.
So anything that is to be done would be done with an eye toward maintaining a rich flow of content to fuel our growth business, and that will be streaming.
Obviously, as has been noted by Kevin in his remarks, the advertising marketplace for streaming is picking up.
We believe in the future of advertising on our streaming platforms, both Disney+ and Hulu.
I wonder if you have a vision for the streaming content vision of ESPN that's different than the linear one we see, Page 18 Q3 FY23 Earnings Conference Call August 9, 2023 perhaps a sports bundle with either other networks or with league partnerships.
So can you just expand on how the product will look differently down the road in streaming than it does now in a linear one?
Regarding the second question and ESPN, the strategic partnerships that we're looking to create and that we're actually in discussions about are aimed at accomplishing a few things: one, content, meaning increasing the content that ESPN offers; and two, possibly, I'll call it distribution and marketing support.
So when we look ahead and we see a business that will be – primarily a direct-to-consumer business, we obviously have an eye toward how much content do we need in order to make that a successful business.
We benefited greatly from the distribution support in the old business model from cable and satellite.
And I think it's safe to assume, as we ultimately turn this into a streaming business, while we have a phenomenal hand right now better than anyone else in terms of the Page 19 Q3 FY23 Earnings Conference Call August 9, 2023 content that ESPN offers that – we believe that adding more content in under economical circumstances might be a wise thing.
It just seems like you're meaningfully below where Netflix was at a similar revenue scale.
And then just secondly, as a follow-up, given that you have the Hulu put coming up next year, what are your thoughts on your ability to fund that transaction as we head into that time horizon?
Is it more in the form of direct capital infusion or maybe some kind of reach on the distribution side when it comes to streaming?
We're looking for partners that are going to help ESPN successfully transition to a DTC model.
And that, as I've said, can come in the form of either content or distribution and marketing support or both.
Brett Feldman – Goldman Sachs So I'm curious how your experience with Disney+ Hotstar has shaped your view on your long- term international streaming strategy.
Are you thinking about maybe exiting those markets or any markets and maybe focusing more on content licensing or partnerships?
In particular, our expectations regarding DTC profitability are built on certain assumptions around subscriber additions based on the availability and attractiveness of our future content, which is subject to additional risks related to ongoing work stoppages, churn expectations, the financial impact of the Disney+ ad tier and price increases, our ability to quickly execute on cost rationalization while preserving revenue and macroeconomic conditions, all of which, while based on extensive internal analysis as well as our recent experience, provide a layer of uncertainty in our outlook.