Our new structure also enabled us to greatly enhance our effectiveness, particularly in streaming, where we’ve created a more unified, cohesive, and highly coordinated approach to marketing, pricing, and programming.
This has helped us improve operating results of our combined streaming businesses by approximately $1.4 billion from fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2023.
And they are: achieving significant and sustained profitability in our streaming business, building ESPN into the preeminent digital sports platform, improving the output and economics of our film Studios, and turbocharging growth in our Experiences business.
First is turning Streaming into a profitable growth business.
In the 4 years since we launched Disney+, which generated roughly 10 million signups in the first 24 hours alone, core Disney+ subscribers have now reached over 112 million as of the end of fiscal ’23 – including the nearly 7 million we gained this quarter.
What’s more, our ad-supported Disney+ products grew by approximately 2 million subscriptions in Q4 to a total of 5.2 million.
We have the best advertiser technology in the streaming business globally, and we have just introduced new tools that will make this an even more attractive platform for advertisers, much as we’ve done with Hulu.
And speaking of Hulu, we were pleased to announce last week that we will acquire the remaining stake in Hulu held by Comcast, which will further Disney’s streaming objectives.
We remain on track to roll out a more unified one-app experience domestically, making extensive general entertainment content available to bundle subscribers via Disney+.
We will launch a beta version for bundle subscribers in December, giving parents time to set up profiles and parental controls that work best for their families ahead of the official launch in early spring 2024.
Also, we have additional opportunities for improvement in our streaming business that will come from implementing stronger standards around account sharing, although given the timing of our planned rollout, we don’t expect a meaningful impact until 2025.
Now that we have realigned our pricing and marketing strategies, focused aggressively on getting the technology right, merged our creative and distribution teams, and restored creative excellence as our singular motivating priority with the content we create, we are bullish about the future of our streaming business.
And as you consider the components and the future of that business, just imagine the opportunities that a further combined Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN streaming experience could offer us as a company and our consumers.
Another core building opportunity is taking ESPN, which is already the world’s leading sports brand, and turning it into the preeminent digital sports platform allowing us to reach fans in compelling new ways and fully integrating key features into our primary ESPN offering.
We’re already moving quickly down this path, and we are exploring strategic partnerships to help advance our efforts through marketing, technology, distribution, and additional content.
As we continue to develop our streaming business, the continued strength of ESPN, relative to the backdrop of notable linear industry declines, demonstrates the value of sports and the power of the ESPN brand.
As we transition ESPN to a streaming future and more fully integrate general entertainment content into Disney+, we will have a DTC offering unlike any other in the industry.
We continue to make headway on our path to profitability in streaming, with fourth quarter operating losses at our Entertainment DTC services improving by nearly $1 billion versus the prior year, or $85 million sequentially, to $420 million.
Note that our Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer results exclude ESPN+.
Including ESPN+, our combined streaming businesses had an operating loss in the fourth quarter of $387 million – a year over year improvement of a little over $1 billion and a sequential improvement of $125 million.
While we expect Entertainment DTC operating losses in Q1 to be generally in line with Q4, due to higher sports rights costs at ESPN+ aligned with the start of the NHL season, we anticipate a modest sequential decline in Q1 for the combined streaming business.
Domestic Entertainment affiliate revenue decreased by 4% in the fourth quarter versus the prior year, due to a 6 point decline from fewer subscribers and a one and a half point adverse impact from the Charter blackout, partially offset by a roughly 4 point impact from higher rates.
Domestic affiliate revenue decreased by a little less than 5% in Q4 versus the prior year, as five and a half points of growth from higher rates were offset by adverse impacts of approximately seven and a half points from fewer subscribers and two points from the Charter blackout.
So it leans into our streaming priorities and that strategy doesn't change things much.
You announced the cost-cutting program, some of which might be at DTC or Hulu.
Our plan when we bring ESPN direct to consumer – which is inevitable, which is going to happen and we're planning for it – is to try to have what I'll call a soft landing, which is to continue to make it available as part of the bundle for those people that want to remain in the bundle or people who feel that the bundle still has value to them.
Bundling is another, I'm going to come back to the bundle between Disney+ and Hulu and then the opportunity to bundle ESPN.
And look, if you think about the portfolio of streaming assets that we will have – Hulu, Disney+ and ESPN – that's a very, very strong hand.
In December, we launched a beta version of Hulu and Disney+ combined.
We are basically putting it in beta so that we can prepare parents largely to basically implement parental controls because you'll be able to access Hulu programming on the same app.
Lastly, in terms of cost reductions, we created, basically, a one-world approach to streaming.
That's a differentiator for us, certainly when it comes to competing with Netflix, for instance, which is the gold standard.
Do you think you can between linear and digital and other ancillary services sort of grow your Sports business over time because that would be another area where you'd certainly outperform expectations?
ESPN is a very popular high in-demand product in the United States – and unique, we believe.
It certainly wouldn't bring us in a growth direction because, basically, the continued decrease in multichannel subscribers.
So this is a way to really buck that trend, continue to allow it to be part of the multichannel bundle, but also make it available on an a la carte basis, basically, taking a very popular product, in fact, and make it available and possibly strengthening it by doing what I described earlier.
And when you think about the building blocks of the company, which right now, we believe there are 4, one of them obviously is Streaming overall.
And the fourth is turning ESPN into a preeminent digital sports platform.
We're finding, obviously, great demand for addressable advertising.
Hulu has an extremely robust advertising engine; we actually – we've got one of the best in the business, if not the best.
And so actually, that combination of Hulu and Disney+ with some of the tools that we put in place is going to give us the ability to have a blended CPM, grow engagement, grow advertising.
So we're quite bullish about our position media-wise in the advertising marketplace.
And then second question is Warner Bros. basically made some news recently by licensing some of their, what would be considered some of their tentpole content, their DC universe, to Netflix.
Page 26 Q4 FY23 Earnings Conference Call November 8, 2023 We've actually been licensing content to Netflix and are going to continue to.
And I don't see why, just to basically to chase bucks, we should do that, when they are really, really important building blocks to the current and future of our streaming business.
Regarding local sports, the technology that we will have for ESPN DTC will give us the ability to provide local sports in a pretty robust way, basically what the RSNs are doing.
What basically, we've been saying, and what we've been exploring, is that as we prepare to take ESPN in the direct-to-consumer direction, we believe that we have opportunities to strengthen our hand with entities that either provide us with technology, marketing support, for instance, or companies, or entities I should say, that can provide us with more content.
In particular, our expectations regarding DTC profitability are built on certain assumptions around subscriber additions based on the availability and attractiveness of our future content (which is subject to additional risk related to recent work stoppages), churn expectations, the financial impact of the Disney+ ad tier and price increases, our ability to quickly execute on cost rationalization while preserving revenue, and macroeconomic conditions, all of which, while based on extensive internal analysis as well as recent experience, provide a layer of uncertainty in our outlook.