I hope you’ve had the opportunity to review our Shareholder Deck to get a sense of what an incredible year 2023 was for Spotify.
While I am pleased with the level of growth we saw in 2023, perhaps what is even more gratifying, is that it also marked a very different year for Spotify – a true evolution in how we operate our company.
Strong product development, which leads to strong growth but with an increased focus on monetization and efficiency, which in turn drives profitability.
Long term we believe that the real value of Spotify is in solving problems at the intersection between creators and consumers.
These include growing our users, creating new businesses with new revenue streams and increasing revenue per user through price increases.
In some years, it is a focus on growing the top-of-the-funnel, and in some years, it is about driving monetization of those users.
I also wanted to provide a quick update on our audiobooks business, which is performing well and we are very excited about its potential.
It’s still early days, but the feedback from listeners and from the industry is extremely encouraging.
In Q4, we became the #2 provider of audiobooks behind Audible, which is notable given how entrenched the legacy players are.
This is exactly what we set out to do – grow the pie for the publishing industry and expand the interest in audiobooks to an entirely new set of listeners.
Both MAU and Subscriber growth continued to be above our historical trend and outperformed forecast.
Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency movements, Revenue grew 20% Y/Y, representing acceleration of 300 bps vs. the prior quarter’s result due to the ongoing effects of new subscription pricing.
Gross Margin of 26.7% was above guidance by about 10 bps due primarily to favorability in our podcast business.
While we no longer give full year guidance, we do expect healthy full year 2024 user growth that should be close to the average of the last few years and we expect strong subscriber growth as well.
Gross Margin and Operating Margin are both expected to improve throughout the year to deliver meaningful full year expansion, with podcasting expected to deliver positive Gross Profit for the year.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ423.
We will continue to innovate in big and small ways to deliver for our listeners – and the artists, creators and authors on our platform.