And then we build out of that, both in terms of membership and revenue as borrowers sign up for their own Netflix accounts, and existing members purchase that extra member facility for folks that they want to share it with.
But we also learned from this last set of launches about some improvements we can do, especially in areas that matter a lot to our members, things like having seamless access to Netflix as they've always been using it on the go or while traveling as well as making sure that we've got good tools for them to manage access to their accounts and their devices.
And is there -- can you give us your thoughts on pricing and whether you have a preference for a current borrower to become a subscriber or an add-on?
So that gives an opportunity for folks to spin off to borrower accounts where they think that's the right solution for them or for use cases, which are legitimate use cases, where somebody wants to basically buy Netflix for a family member or something like that, we want that extra member to be in place, too.
We're not trying to steer in one perspective other than using pricing to both satisfy those customer choice goals as well as thinking about long-term revenue optimization.
It seems like content distribution, marketing are already in your expenses.
Netflix appears to have a huge advantage in, let's call it, television advertising.
Given the limited ad load, premium video content, your humongous reach and engagement with some pretty hard-to-reach demographics as well as the ongoing mass transition from linear to streaming, your position is enviable.
So I would say where we're at today, we've got a lot of work to do to develop -- continue to develop features that support advertisers.
We're improving our go-to-market and sales capabilities in partnership with Microsoft.
Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich Cohen BofA Securities, Research Division There've been a lot of press reports regarding your buildup of ad tech capabilities.
And a lot of that innovation is thinking about not a one-size-fits-all in terms of the member experience and thinking about what's the right time to flight an ad, things like that.
We also talked about a little bit of content costs as we continue to kind of -- we increased our level of content parity on the plan this past quarter, which is great.
Do you have any plans to introduce it to your premium tier?
One is we want to give a wide range of consumers, and ideally, increasingly, wide range of consumers, access to our great stories at a range of prices with appropriate corresponding features.
A good example of this is based on the economics of our ads plan, based on the limited switching behavior that we've seen off of standard and premium, we've upgraded the ads plan features, both in terms of video resolution or video quality and number of concurrent streams because we think it supports both of those goals.
We're only a couple of quarters into this, Jessica, so we're going to get better, as Greg said, better targeting and measurement, better kind of tools and buying options for advertisers.
So we think all of that will actually kind of build on this so that we'll reinforce and strengthen that kind of premium CPM ad network that we're building.
And when we think about even just the member population that's available, those 1 billion-plus broadband households, and even today, roughly 450 million, 500 million of those being connected TV households, and we only have 230 million-ish paying members today, roughly, right, so that's why we're so focused on addressing with paid sharing and then just making our business and our -- the value that we bring to the service better each day to bring in more members.
Entertainment services and networks at scale traditionally have been well above our roughly 20% operating margin.
We're a truly global entertainment network, perhaps the first, with really healthy leading engagement and a really scalable content model.
And also keep in mind that the way that revenue -- or the way that content spend hits us, it's with start of productions and deliveries.
We create that demand, we collect that demand on our subscription service with our members.
And I think having big, new, desirable content, including feature films in the first window, drives value for our members and drives value to the business.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 11 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2023 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | APR 18, 2023 Spencer Adam Neumann Chief Financial Officer And it's really leaning into, we believe, an advantage we have of delivering that value to our members.
But because of our reach and our scale, to have over 230 million paying members at our average revenue per member, it affords the opportunity to invest in these big movies, bring them to our members is just one other piece or area, a variety of content and must-watch content and entertainment for our members.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 12 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2023 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | APR 18, 2023 Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich Cohen BofA Securities, Research Division Is it a big driver of the advertising?
They've clearly enjoyed content on the service before.
But even in that case, I'd say this represents a really important structural shift where we'll develop that one- to-one relationship without pricing distortion, without membership distortion, with a whole new range of members.
So we'll see membership grow through that approach.
Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich Cohen BofA Securities, Research Division And then just also going back to like advertising, what are the advertising features that you are most excited about?
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2023 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | APR 18, 2023 measurement: verification, targeting, expanding the ways for advertisers to buy.
But then when you think about like from a technology and product experience perspective, what am I excited about there, that's again where I think we have an opportunity to bring the specific characteristics of a premium, fully addressable, fully targetable, fully deterministic ad streaming system to this world.
So we're getting to a certain size of scale that shifts how advertisers think about us.
Part of it is the technical features that advertisers -- that face advertisers.
It is a very specific market in terms of they like local content.
So you look at all these things and you say, well, that -- as the content opportunity continues to scale and our ability to access the market and as well those audiences continues to grow, we can do quite well in India.
So moving on to like accelerated revenue and products, can you give us an outlook or an update on -- just when you're seeing -- what your expectations are for consumer products?
Like, for example, a household that has a premium subscription, are they going to 2 standards or anything like that?
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2023 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | APR 18, 2023 sharing and also have them be able to use things like extra member or, in countries where it's relevant, the ads plan as a new entry-level price.
Theodore A. Sarandos Co-CEO & Director And Jessica, if I could just add really quick, the way that we win over those sharers and the way that we grow the ad plan is to have the content that people cannot live without.
And we have to keep that up in order to win over those sharing accounts and also to grow that ad-supported tier.
Netflix is the leading streaming service in terms of engagement, revenue and profits.
So on engagement, just yesterday, Nielsen released data that in Q1 of '23, Netflix was the most watched of any broadcaster or streamer in the U.S. by a pretty nice margin.
You'll see a broader rollout of paid sharing in Q2 and we're going to continue to grow that ad business.
So remember that this account sharing initiative helps us have a larger base of potential paying members that we can continue to serve and grow Netflix long term, and that's why we've been so focused on execution.
So the variety and quality of our much-watch movies, our must-watch TV shows, our must-play games, we're going to keep working to improve discovery, to have buzzier and more creative marketing because, when we deliver for our members, we deliver as a business.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 18 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2023 PRE RECORDED EARNINGS CALL | APR 18, 2023 Copyright © 2023 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.