And we should get some help from extra members and starting to scale our ads business.
But as we said, ads won't be a primary driver in '24.
If we do that well, we'll have more members or more value that we can occasionally price into and lots of engagement to build a big and profitable ads business.
The question is once a subscriber and ARM benefits from paid sharing begin to diminish in 2024, what do you think are the biggest incremental opportunities to continue to drive subscriber and revenue growth?
What types of additional content or additional member benefits provide the best ROI to help sustain healthy revenue growth?
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2023 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 23, 2024 Well, we're excited to be at the point where we've operationalized that paid sharing product work.
So we think of this essentially as having built a more effective engine for translating the entertainment value that we're creating for our members into revenue.
If we continue to improve our core offering, that means more diversity and more quality from our members' perspective and our films and series now adding the live events programming to add even more value, continue to grow games and the entertainment value that we're delivering through those, then our paid sharing work and our ads work creates a more effective engine to translate all that value into revenue growth.
Is there anything specific to point out there, perhaps the ad tier or specific content or localized pricing perhaps?
And then by channel, Greg's last answer that kind of better value translation engine, if you will, which drives even more growth through our paid sharing solutions and our monetization engine.
Do you still believe paid sharing will add subscribers for several more quarters?
And is there any way to quantify what percentage of the $100 million borrower household population have either become extra members or full paying subscribers?
As I mentioned, we've gotten to the point where paid sharing -- the paid sharing product prices is something we do at this point.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2023 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 23, 2024 the service as well.
I'll now transition us to a series of questions around advertising.
Do you have a target level of MAUs or ad member households, what sorts of improvements to ad tech or measurement are you seeking and perhaps any new country launches for your ads plan?
Our top ads priority, you've heard us say before, I think you'll hear us say it again, is scale.
Second priority, you mentioned this, which is really growing the technical advertising features and growing our go-to-market capabilities.
And these are features like targeting, improved ad relevance.
And we have to build increasingly the capability to be better partners with advertisers and serve their needs.
So this is better sales teams, ad operations and just more capability to meet brands where they need us and how they need us.
So we believe we're well positioned to capture some of that ad spend that shifts from linear to streaming.
We'll see in the fullness of time, but I'd say we've got years of work ahead of us to take the ads business to the point where it's a material impact to our general business.
How do you think about the efficacy of continuing to use a third-party relationship for ad sales versus the opportunity to invest in your own ad tech and ad sales infrastructure?
Do you have a sense of what kind of investment would be required to transact more directly with advertisers?
And just to clarify, we are already in partnership with Microsoft developing part of the technology that supports our ads experience.
Later this week, T-Mobile's subscriber benefit called Netflix On Us, will convert to Netflix' ad tier unless subscribers upgrade to an ad-free tier?
Is it reasonable to assume that your U.S. ad-supported subscriber base will roughly double as a result of this change?
I won't get into the specifics of a particular deal or provide a forecast for a particular deal, but I'll just say that just as we've done for many, many years, leveraging partner channels is an important part of our subscriber growth strategy.
We're applying the same techniques and approaches to scaling our ads membership.
It's very effective, very useful for us because that lower consumer-facing price means that we got room now to bundle the ads plan into a set of lower-priced partner offerings where it was hard to make the economics work for everyone previously.
They get a better plan than basic, more streams, higher resolution with downloads.
Are you shifting the mix of your content spend to more licensed second-run content?
And if so, how should we think about this mix impacting Netflix's operating margins?
And as a follow-up to that question around licensing, Ted, your competitors have largely abandoned their opposition to licensing catalog content in Netflix.
Do you think your competitors should begin licensing you their new original series as well versus keeping them exclusively to their own streaming services?
This is really a story about viewing moving from linear television to streaming.
So the biggest download and engagement numbers that we've seen so far.
And we believe we can build games as strong components, and other content category to deliver entertainment value to our subscribers.
With ads coming to Prime video at the end of this month, and given Amazon is making it the default option for its prime members, could you talk about how you are positioning Netflix relative to the competition when you're speaking with advertisers?
Could you also comment on if Netflix considered making the ad tier the default option similar to Amazon?
But given our long history of not having ads, we thought it was better for our members rather than force them into a change and give them ads.
But better to attract them to the ads plan for the ones that wanted it based on the benefits, more streams, higher resolution downloads and of course, the lower price to be able to access all these incredible stories.
How does the current competitive landscape or content impact the trajectory of Netflix's own content spending in 2024 and beyond?
Is it possible that the company could widen its competitive moat on the same or lower absolute amount of content spend?
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2023 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 23, 2024 seeing in the business, we hope to sustain that healthy revenue growth, grow profit and profit margins over time and then reinvest a good portion of that back in the business, which means increasing our content spend.
I think the perception of overserving thrilling content to our members has served us pretty well.
Given the scale of audience that has been built by Netflix, how do you think about the potential for new areas to widen your exposure to verticals or formats of media consumption?
In our most mature markets, we're getting about 10% of TV time.
Some of those platforms that you're talking about maybe in the user- generated space have turned out to be great marketing tools for our professional content.
Is there the possibility for mobile gaming, aqua-hire or what other sorts of M&A activity would Netflix be interested in?
You see that in terms of our investment into ads, into live, into games, while still growing the business.
We got hundreds of millions of qualified households out there that are still yet to sign up for Netflix.
We want to improve our entertainment offering to do that.
We look forward to your feedback and in the spirit of continuous improvement and Netflix on everything, we look forward to getting better at this over time.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2023 EARNINGS CALL | JAN 23, 2024 Copyright © 2024 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.