Over the last few months, we’ve celebrated a few significant milestones including surpassing over half a billion users and reaching more than 200 million subscribers.
Further, our user growth exceeded our expectations by 15 million, and our subscriber numbers by three million.
AndAt our scale, it’s pretty remarkable to see this level of reacceleration in our user growth, but it is a trend that has been consistent over the last 5 quarters.
On top of this, we were able to accomplish this level of growth with lower marketing spend.
As you’ve heard me say repeatedly over the years, a healthy topline user growth is the leading indicator of our ability to achieve future success on all other financial metrics.
And When we successfully attract new users, it’s only a matter of time before the conversion rate to subscribers increases, which then of course drives our revenue upwards over the long term.
For those who tuned in to our March Stream On event, we unveiled numerous creator tools and debuted an entirely new and updated Spotify experience, including a first of its kind AI DJ.
And while we really can’t always anticipate when the benefits will materialize, we do know that our growth is a consequence of our relentless pursuit of learning, iterating and improving.
Think of it as waves of innovation, investment and improvement.
User growth was exceptionally strong in the quarter.
Total Monthly Active Users grew to 515 million in Q1.
The strength was broad based and we hit record Q1 net additions across nearly all age demographics in both developed and developing regions.
Moving to Premium, we finished the quarter with 210 million Subscribers – 3 million ahead of guidance – thanks once again to broad-based strength across all regions.
Engagement trends were strong in Q1, with healthy uplift to year over year growth in content hours per MAU across all platforms.
This marks the first Q1 in Spotify history where we surpassed $300 million in ad revenue.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ123.
Thanks again for joining and as usual feel free to check out our For the Record podcast dropping later today.