But at the very end of our last session together, the guild presented this new demand that, kind of on top of everything, for a per subscriber levy unrelated to viewing or success, and this really broke our momentum, unfortunately.
Look, what I talked about there was heading towards a world where -- that -- where streaming data will be much more readily available.
Remember, data -- streaming itself is not that exotic anymore.
So we -- in the beginning, we thought there was a hard kind of apples and oranges comparison to ratings and streaming.
We're on the continuum today of how much data do we publish.
So we got to go after them the same way we're going after people who have never signed up for Netflix, which is having an incredible content offering, an incredible value and get them so excited that they just have to sign up.
Second, she's got broad entertainment experience, ranging from content licensing, distribution.
So I think when you think about that assemblage of skills, and you think about the existing ads leadership team that we have that has got a rich, rich history in ads in general and connected TV, especially if you think about somebody like Peter Naylor, who started selling connected TV at Hulu.
That's a strong team to take our ads business to the next level.
This quarter, we grew our ad plan membership 70% Copyright © 2023 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
We now have 30% of our new sign-ups choosing our ads plan in our ads countries.
And we've done it by making the ads offering more competitive.
We've gotten to over 95% content period with our non-ads plans.
We've improved features like a number of streams, the video resolution.
Second big priority for us is delivering features and products that advertisers want.
We're going to roll out our binge ad product later this year.
And we expect to continue to do things like add extra members, grow our advertising revenue, as Greg discussed.
And now that, as Greg discussed, we've got and account sharing solution, we have a more clear path to more deeply penetrate that big addressable market of 0.5 billion connected TV households and growing.
And it's largely based on what's the competitive channels and what's that competitive dynamic.
I think there's a variety of techniques that we can employ to do that pricing and thinking about how do we factor in what's optimal pricing for ads, no ads.
These are the things that consumers want to sign up for.
I think what we are seeing is, in some of our countries, consumers think about an ads experience mostly anchored and linear in what their expectation around ad load, frequency rates are.
And to some degree, actually, some of our streaming competitors haven't done maybe as great a job in building an ads experience, which informs that expectation as well.
The part of it is just educating consumers about what the actual Netflix ads experience is so that they can think about what's the right choice for them.
Do they want a lower price with ads and what we think is a great ads experience for consumers really, or do they want to pay more and skip ads.
When do we get to a point or when will you have a point where it's targeted, addressable, so it's really relevant for consumers and so they would want to see the ads?
So what are the types of ad products that brands can buy that yield increasing relevance as well as improving our sort of sophistication on what we might call targeting from a digital perspective, which is basically matching consumers who are most interested in that particular brand's message.
But could you elaborate on areas like ad tech, content spend?
So we think a pretty good indicator that ad scale streaming can be a quite good business.
Plus building out those ads capabilities that Greg talked about, our live offering and new content categories like games, so there's plenty to do.
Jessica Jean Reif Ehrlich Cohen BofA Securities, Research Division How does licensing content from third parties play into your overall content strategy?
It seems like you've had incredible success with third-party content and -- I mean you always have, but in the last year, things like Suits or Band of Brothers, and you mentioned it in the letter, but if you could just talk about the third- party licensing.
Licensing third-party content has always been part of our strategy, and we've -- something we've been really great at being able to do is match that audience.
I think Suits is a great example of the impact of the Netflix effect that we can have because of our distribution footprint and our recommendation system, we were able to take suits, which had played on cable and had played on other streaming services and pop it right into the center of the culture in a huge way, not just in the U.S. but all over the world.
You see that play out over the last handful of years and continue to do so as we produce content all over the world for big local impact, but also with the ability for those stories to through great subs, dubs, discovery to reach more and more people and to be enjoyed around the world.
It's a global network at scale that has -- in many ways, has not been seen with legacy entertainment networks.
So as we expand into big new addressable markets like advertising that Greg alluded to or gaming also, right?
I think it's also worthing that we seek to have a wide and even wider over time range of price points with the corresponding set of features, of course, that allows entertainment fans from around the world that have different needs to be able to access the great storytelling that our creative partners are doing at a price point that works for them at a feature set that works for them.
And if you think about the breadth and the variety of storytelling that we're offering, whether that's compared to our streaming competitors, compared to traditional pay TV, certainly, even the price of a movie ticket, we think that's just an amazing offer.
Would you -- given the price increase for just premium and basic not standard, do you expect any -- or advertising tier, do you expect any movement between the tiers as a result of these price increases?
But Spence talked a little bit about the kind of scale of the content Copyright © 2023 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
And usually, local audiences want very local content.
And then going beyond that, we do expect to tick up our content investment over time as we also prove out sustained healthy revenue growth.
Assuming no big expansions, we'd expect our cash to P&L ratio of content spend cash to content amort in the P&L to be roughly 1.1x.
So that's kind of one way folks are thinking about how to model our growth in content spend.
If we -- as we grow our revenue, as we improve our profitability, we should see both increasing content spend but also free cash flow growing nicely over time.
So if you think about the -- for the last 37 of the last 38 weeks of this year, Netflix has had the #1 streaming series on -- of all -- in all of streaming.
And from a strategic perspective, we believe that we can build games into a strong content category, leveraging our current core film and series by connecting members, especially members that are fans of specific Ips, with games that they will love.
If you think about the range of content that we're offering, the variety of content and entertainment that we're offering, games just adds 1 extra layer to that variety and that depth.
So games engagement right now on our service drives core business metrics in a way which is incremental to movies and series.
We got to do it on better product features to maximize connection with the audience for any given title.
And we have to do it by gradually improving consumer awareness, which is we've seen as when we launched other content categories.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 17 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2023 EARNINGS CALL | OCT 18, 2023 Copyright © 2023 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.