As we were planning to launch our streaming platforms, the opportunity arose to acquire numerous assets from 21st Century Fox, and that acquisition gave us a bigger library with more franchises, a broader global reach, and a talented, experienced management team, that enabled us to generate even more higher quality content.
Now it’s time for another transformation… one that rationalizes our enviable streaming business and puts it on a path to sustained growth and profitability… while also reducing expenses to improve margins and returns… and better positioning us to weather future disruption, increased competition, and global economic challenges.
Moving forward, our creative teams will determine what content we’re making, how it is distributed and monetized, and how it gets marketed.
Alan Bergman and Dana Walden will be co-Chairmen of Disney Entertainment, which will include the Company’s full portfolio of entertainment media and content businesses globally, including streaming.
Turning to our streaming businesses… I’m proud of what we’ve been able to achieve since the launch of Disney+ just three years ago.
We are delivering more content... with greater quality... in more ways… in more places… and to larger audiences.
Instead, our priority is the enduring growth and profitability of our streaming business.
Since my return, I have drilled down into every facet of the streaming business to determine how to achieve both profitability and growth.
We will aggressively curate our general entertainment content.
We will reassess all markets we have launched in and also determine the right balance between global and local content.
We will fine-tune our advertising initiatives on all streaming platforms.
We will improve our marketing, better balancing platform and program marketing, while also leveraging our legacy distribution platforms for marketing and programming.
This is one of the most important steps we can take to improve the economics of our streaming business.
We are focused on the success of our streaming business and the return it generates for our shareholders long into the future.
Page 8 Q1 FY23 Earnings Conference Call February 8, 2023 Without question, we have a world-class television business that fuels both our linear channels and direct-to-consumer services, especially with the assets acquired through the Fox transaction.
It goes without saying that the best shows lead to the most lucrative library and have the power to endure because of their quality.
ESPN is more than just a network, and today the team is harnessing innovative technology to deliver spectacular coverage and entertainment to audiences who have a deep connection to the brand and content.
And at Disney+, core subscribers increased slightly…in line with our prior guidance, from 102.9 million in the fourth quarter to 104.3 million in Q1.
Broadcasting and our other domestic Cable Networks will be adversely impacted in the second quarter by approximately $300 million, driven primarily by headwinds in advertising and to a lesser extent, affiliate revenue.
We have an ability to balance how we take our product to market with legacy platforms, whether it's movie theaters or multichannel TV with, of course, the streamers.
And when you think about what streaming is, and we talked about this a lot as it related to multichannel TV, it is the ultimate à la carte proposition for the consumer.
It gives the consumer so much more authority than they ever had before because in reality, it gives them the ability to watch programs, not channels, not even bundles when you think about it.
And because you're signing up in most cases for a 1-month subscription, you can sign up for 1 program, pay a relatively small amount of money and then end up basically unsubscribing.
Christine commented about some of the challenges related to that, the streaming business, which I believe is the future and has been growing, is not delivering basically the kind of profitability or bottom-line results that the linear business delivered for us over a few decades.
And so we're in a very interesting transition period, but one I think is inevitably heading towards streaming.
Again, very popular and attracting a lot of consumers to come out and experience that.
The first is, when you go back to the second investment day you had for streaming, the company increased their TAM forecast, their investment spending and kind of vision for Disney+.
Now that you've returned with more data and time, what's the vision for Disney+?
ESPN+ actually has grown nicely for us, and it's shown us that the ESPN brand can be enjoyed and can be expressed well as a streaming brand.
And in our zeal to go after subscribers, I think we might have gotten a bit too aggressive in terms of our promotion, and we are going to take a look at that.
We're going to reduce costs, both in content and of course, infrastructure.
Nielsen came out with something a few weeks ago that was stunning to us, and that was that 10 of the top 15 movies streamed in the United States in 2022 were ours.
That suggests to us that our brands and franchises work extremely well in streaming.
So core brands and franchises, more efficient pricing, getting better in marketing, being a little bit more judicious at promotion, all of those things is how we believe we're going to get to turn the streaming business to a growth business.
And one other thing, the streaming business is going to continue to grow, albeit at the expense of linear programming, but consumption of television is not decreasing, it's actually going up.
So what do you need to see out there in the linear world to decide that an ESPN à la carte sports service in streaming should be the big leap for Disney?
You mentioned about how a lot of content can amortize in places other than streaming.
As I've talked about getting more aggressive at curating general entertainment, by the way, we're not getting out of that business, but we're going to curate it more.
And that's not just about how many subscribers we could get, it's also about what is the pricing power of ESPN, which obviously ties to the menu of sports that they've licensed.