Back to Contents Message from our Chief Executive Officer To our shareholders, Over the past year, teams across Apple came together in service of our timeless mission: creating technology that empowers people and enriches their lives.
Today, we have the strongest lineup of products and services we’ve ever had, and our technology has never shown up for our users in more ways.
And I’m so inspired by people across Apple working to make our technology even more accessible, more private, and more empowering for all who use it.
This year, teams across Apple pushed forward in our work to infuse technology with our values, supporting the communities where we live and work, and protecting the planet we Supplier Responsibility share.
• Apple has a robust shareholder engagement program and, over the course of our engagement in calendar year 2022 with shareholders representing over 60% of institutional shares held, no shareholders provided feedback on, or sought changes to, our existing proxy access provisions.
Additionally, the policy requires Apple to maintain active communication channels with rights holders and other stakeholders.
These reports include updates from Apple’s Senior Vice President, Operations, on Apple’s supply chain management, and our program to oversee Apple’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Responsibility Standards.
People and Culture Because Apple operates in a very competitive talent market, directors with experience managing people and teams, including recruitment, retention, development, compensation, and incentivization of key talent, provide strategic value in overseeing our efforts to recruit, retain, and develop our people and teams and in determining compensation for our CEO and other senior executives.
Equipment and Matching Gifts Programs Apple has an equipment program for the Board under which each Non-Employee Director is eligible to receive, upon request and free of charge, one of each new product introduced by Apple, and is eligible to purchase additional equipment at a discount.
As the leader of Apple’s retail teams, Deirdre supports their work to enrich the lives of millions of Apple customers every year.
Apple is unique in many ways, and there are many considerations that go into creating an executive compensation program that effectively ties pay with performance.
Our primary peer group consists of large U.S.-based, stand-alone, publicly traded companies in the technology, media, and internet services industries that, in the Compensation Committee’s view, compete with Apple for talent.
Revenue shown is based on the trailing 12 months revenue for Apple and each of our primary peers ending closest to our 2022 fiscal year-end.
present or represented by proxy and voting at the Motivating and retaining a talented and experienced leadership team is a key component Annual Meeting and (ii) a of Apple’s long-term success.
At Apple, we believe business can and should be a force for good.
Apple engages with stakeholders as part of our commitment to advance meaningful change and find novel solutions to pressing challenges.
• Apple has a robust shareholder engagement program and, over the course of our engagement in calendar year 2022 with shareholders representing over 60% of institutional shares held, no shareholders provided feedback on, or sought changes to, our existing proxy access provisions.
The proponent mischaracterizes Apple’s commitment to inclusion and diversity by suggesting that our policies promoting these goals are discriminatory.
At Apple, we’re building on our long-standing commitment to make our Company more inclusive and diverse and to promote equitable pay for all employees.
As a sign of our commitment, Apple is a founding signatory to the ACT Report: Action to Catalyze Tech, A Paradigm Shift for DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion),(2) which provides tech companies and leaders a rigorous framework of action.
At Apple, our North Star is creating great technology that empowers our customers and enriches their lives.
Instead, they reflect a thoughtful and mainstream approach to stakeholder engagement that recognizes the benefits of coordinating communications to allow Apple to speak with one voice when appropriate, while providing multiple avenues for engagement that can vary depending on the context and issue.
In practice, Apple has an active shareholder engagement program in which the Board participates.
In addition, Apple proactively engages with shareholders and other stakeholders throughout the year.
At Apple, we’re always building on our long-standing commitment to make our Company more inclusive and diverse and provide for equitable pay for all employees.
At Apple, we believe building an inclusive culture rooted in community helps everyone, in every part of Apple, feel supported, valued, connected, and empowered to do the best work of their lives.
From day one, Apple employees have access to our career development programs, ongoing inclusion and diversity education, and support throughout their career journey.
Are these laggards really “mainstream” companies Apple should emulate?
Apple is soliciting proxies for use at the Annual Meeting, including any postponements or adjournments thereof.
Proxy Materials are Available on the Internet Apple uses the internet as the primary means of furnishing proxy materials to shareholders.
We encourage shareholders to take advantage of the availability of the proxy materials online to help reduce the environmental impact of our annual meetings and reduce Apple’s printing and mailing costs.
Apple’s proxy materials are also available at investor.apple.com.
Upon written or oral request, Apple will deliver promptly a separate copy of the Notice of Internet Availability and, if you requested printed versions by mail, this Proxy Statement and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 24, 2022 to any shareholder that elects not to participate in householding.
Proxy Solicitation Costs Apple is paying the costs of the solicitation of proxies.
In addition to solicitations by mail, the proxy solicitor and Apple’s directors, officers, and employees, without additional compensation, may solicit proxies on Apple’s behalf in person, by phone, or by electronic communication.