To our stockholders, customers, employees and partners, Cloud and Experience Cloud have become the foundation of digital experiences, starting with the first creative spark, to the Forty years ago, Adobe was founded on simple yet enduring creation and development of all content and media, to the principles that remain with us to this day: innovation is at our personalized delivery across every channel.
“Our strategy to unleash creativity for all, accelerate document productivity and power digital businesses As digital continues to rapidly reshape how we connect is driving momentum across every geography and and engage with the world around us, we are guided by our customer segment, making us one of the most innovative, mission to change the world through digital experiences, diversified and profitable software companies empowering everyone, everywhere to imagine, create and in the world.” deliver any digital experience.
It’s humbling and exciting to think that over a billion people around the world have used our software, and the potential to reach billions more is Digital Media bigger than ever.
We continue to drive massive opportunities Digital Media is the combination of our Creative Cloud and across creativity, digital documents and customer experience Document Cloud business.
Digital Media revenue of $12.84 billion, which represents 11% year-over-year growth.
“As digital continues to rapidly reshape how we connect and engage with the world around us, we are guided With Creative Cloud, we are Unleashing Creativity for by our mission to change the world through digital creators of every skill level, giving them the tools to create, experiences, empowering everyone, everywhere to communicate, distribute and monetize their content.
Content imagine, create and deliver any digital experience.” creation and consumption is exploding across every category, customer segment, surface, channel and media type.
Our Strategy & Execution industry-leading applications, such as Photoshop, Lightroom, Illustrator, InDesign, Premiere Pro, After Effects and Substance We had an outstanding fiscal 2022 despite an uncertain 3D, continue to put us at the forefront of every creative macroeconomic environment, achieving record revenue of category across imaging, photography, design, video, web and $17.61 billion, which represents 12% year-over-year growth.
With newer GAAP earnings per share was $10.10 and non-GAAP earnings offerings like Adobe Express, we are bringing the power and per share was $13.71.
Our strategy to unleash an even wider universe of customers.
We are integrating creativity for all, accelerate document productivity and collaboration workflows across our applications to enable power digital businesses is driving momentum across customers to seamlessly co-create and manage reviews every geography and customer segment, making us one with a growing number of stakeholders.
We are applying of the most innovative, diversified and profitable software the power of our Adobe Sensei artificial intelligence (AI) and companies in the world.
Adobe Creative Cloud, Document machine learning framework to help creators of all skill levels free themselves from mundane tasks and discover new clouds, our pending acquisition of Figma, a leading web-first superpowers.
The total addressable market for Creative Cloud collaborative design platform, represents a tremendous is projected to be approximately $63 billion in 2024. opportunity to further accelerate our growth strategy by advancing product design, transforming collaborative With Document Cloud, we are Accelerating Document creativity and reimagining the future of creativity and Productivity across every device and platform as digital productivity for millions of people.
Our success converting the high capabilities and platforms that underpin our cloud offerings volume of traffic and searches for PDF into Acrobat Web further accelerate our competitive advantage.
We’re integrating value- is built on decades of data and expertise at the intersection of added services like Adobe Sign and Share for Review across art and science.
The total addressable market for Document high-value customers in Adobe Audience Manager.
We are Cloud is projected to grow to approximately $32 billion by committed to harnessing the best of AI to amplify human 2024. creativity, intelligence and ingenuity in service of cutting-edge digital experiences.
We see tremendous opportunities with Digital Experience generative AI to make creativity more accessible and our In fiscal year 2022, our Digital Experience revenue grew customers more productive.
to a record $4.42 billion, representing 14% year-over-year “Adobe has always distinguished itself by looking growth.
With Experience Cloud, we are Powering Digital around the corner and focusing on groundbreaking Businesses to deliver personalized experiences across innovation to make our products more powerful, their customers’ entire journeys at unprecedented scale.
accessible and fun.” Businesses in every industry now depend on digital to engage and transact with their customers.
Adobe offers the most comprehensive set of solutions for building Adobe is enabling seamless collaboration across the myriad personalized experiences across data insights and audiences, workflows and growing universe of stakeholders needed content and commerce, customer journeys and marketing to deliver exceptional digital experiences.
were key strategies in advancing our collaboration efforts We are driving a mix of diversified revenue streams through across video and marketing campaign workflows.
We subscription and consulting services across new and existing debuted the industry’s first post-production review and customers, demonstrating strong demand and a focus on approval workflow with Frame.io, Premiere Pro and After value realization.
Our total addressable market for Experience Effects.
Adobe Workfront is empowering teams to manage Cloud is estimated to be $110 billion in 2024. complex workflows and realize productivity gains.
in the hands of over 40 million K-12 students globally, and we are engaging with college students across more than 50 Driven by Purpose designated Adobe Creative Campuses to help the next generation build the skills they need to compete in the digital Adobe’s commitment to doing the right thing by focusing on age.
We launched Adobe Express for Nonprofits to over 10 people, purpose and community dates back to our founding.
million nonprofits around the world to help them engage This sense of purpose has guided our evolution and growth donors and drive greater impact.
Our innovations are making a significant impact across AI Ethics, Security, “Adobe’s commitment to doing the right thing by Privacy, Trust and Safety, Accessibility and Sustainability.
Adobe for All is our commitment to create responsibility and transparency.
We are proud of our progress in increasing enabling our cloud products, services, platforms and women in Director+ roles globally by 50% and our Black operations to achieve and track compliance with various community in the U.S. by 63% over the past two years.
Adobe is committed to sustainability and climate We are sponsoring the success of URMs in technology careers action through our products and operations.
Our cloud- through initiatives such as the McKinsey Leadership Academy based products are significantly reducing paper-based and strategic partnerships with historically Black colleges and waste by accelerating the paper-to-digital transformation universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs), and enabling digital collaboration that reduces physical such as Bowie State University, San José State University and waste and emissions.
workflows powered by Document Cloud eliminate over 2.5 billion pounds of greenhouse gas per year in the U.S. alone.
We are on track to meet our original Adobe Fellowship, to the hundreds of creators we’ve aided 2035 renewable electricity goal by 2025. financially through our Creative Residency, to our Diverse Voices platform that elevates creators from a spectrum of Our 28,000+ employees across 28 countries bring our mission disciplines, we are helping people around the world tell their to life, working together to create change in the communities stories on a larger scale.
These values come to life through the amazing Over the past four decades, Adobe’s continuous innovation talent we’re able to attract and retain and extend to how and leadership have empowered billions of people around we support our customers, partners and communities.
Our employees are at the center of our philanthropic Adobe to our stakeholders.
In calendar year 2022, We have everything it takes to continue our success in the our employee donations and matching program reached future: massive market opportunities; a proven ability to $28 million and employees completed over 144,000 hours create and expand categories that transform markets; an of volunteer time, supporting over 79,000 organizations expansive product portfolio that serves a growing universe worldwide.
of customers; revolutionary technology platforms that advance our industry leadership and competitive advantage; Our brand and culture remain among the most respected in an expanding ecosystem that delivers even greater value the industry.
Adobe was once again named to Interbrand’s to customers; strong business fundamentals; and the most Best Global Brands list as a top riser for the seventh year dedicated and talented employees.