The Company’s line of wireless headphones includes AirPods®, AirPods Pro®, AirPods Max® and Beats® products.
Home includes Apple TV®, the Company’s media streaming and gaming device based on its tvOS® operating system, and HomePod® and HomePod mini®, high-fidelity wireless smart speakers.
Accessories includes Apple-branded and third-party accessories.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 1 Services Advertising The Company’s advertising services include third-party licensing arrangements and the Company’s own advertising platforms.
AppleCare The Company offers a portfolio of fee-based service and support products under the AppleCare® brand.
The offerings provide priority access to Apple technical support, access to the global Apple authorized service network for repair and replacement services, and in many cases additional coverage for instances of accidental damage or theft and loss, depending on the country and type of product.
Cloud Services The Company’s cloud services store and keep customers’ content up-to-date and available across multiple Apple devices and Windows personal computers.
Digital Content The Company operates various platforms, including the App Store®, that allow customers to discover and download applications and digital content, such as books, music, video, games and podcasts.
The Company also offers digital content through subscription-based services, including Apple Arcade®, a game subscription service; Apple Fitness+SM, a personalized fitness service; Apple Music®, which offers users a curated listening experience with on-demand radio stations; Apple News+®, a subscription news and magazine service; and Apple TV+®, which offers exclusive original content and live sports.
Payment Services The Company offers payment services, including Apple Card®, a co-branded credit card, and Apple Pay®, a cashless payment service.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 2 The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily on ensuring the continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products, services and technologies to the marketplace.
The Company’s services compete with business models that provide content to users for free and use illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content and applications.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 3 Business Seasonality and Product Introductions The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand.
The Company offers programs through Apple University on leadership, management and influence, as well as Apple culture and values.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 6 Global markets for the Company’s products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and the Company may be unable to compete effectively in these markets.
The Company also competes with illegitimate means to obtain third-party digital content and applications.
In addition, the Company’s service offerings can have quality issues and from time to time experience outages, service slowdowns or errors.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 9 The Company’s future performance depends in part on support from third-party software developers.
The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products depend in part on the availability of third-party software applications and services.
The Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services for its products depends in part on the developers’ perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining and upgrading such software and services for the Company’s products compared to competitors’ platforms, such as Android for smartphones and tablets, Windows for personal computers and tablets, and PlayStation, Nintendo and Xbox for gaming platforms.
When developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Company’s devices can suffer.
For the vast majority of applications, developers keep all of the revenue they generate on the App Store.
For example, in the U.S., the Company has implemented changes to how developers communicate with consumers within apps on the U.S. storefront of the iOS and iPadOS App Store regarding alternative purchasing mechanisms.
The Company has also implemented changes to iOS, iPadOS, the App Store and Safari® in the European Union (“EU”) as it seeks to comply with the Digital Markets Act (the “DMA”), including new business terms and alternative fee structures for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative methods of distribution for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative payment processing for apps across the Company’s operating systems, and additional tools and application programming interfaces (“APIs”) for developers.
The Company contracts with numerous third parties to offer their digital content to customers.
This includes the right to sell, or offer subscriptions to, third-party content, as well as the right to incorporate specific content into the Company’s own services.
Some third-party content providers and distributors currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and can take actions to make it difficult or impossible for the Company to license or otherwise distribute their content.
Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company’s access to, or increase the cost of, such content.
The Company also produces its own digital content, which can be costly to produce due to intense and increasing competition for talent, content and subscribers, and may fail to appeal to the Company’s customers.
Some third-party digital content providers require the Company to provide digital rights management and other security solutions.
The Company distributes its products and certain of its services through cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers, many of which distribute products and services from competitors.
Some carriers providing cellular network service for the Company’s products offer financing, installment payment plans or subsidies for users’ purchases of the device.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 11 The Company experiences malicious attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to its systems on a regular basis.
The Company has also implemented changes to iOS, iPadOS, the App Store and Safari in the EU as it seeks to comply with the DMA, including new business terms and alternative fee structures for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative methods of distribution for iOS and iPadOS apps, alternative payment processing for apps across the Company’s operating systems, and additional tools and APIs for developers.
The Company distributes its products and certain of its services through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers.
The Commission’s investigations concern (1) Article 5(4) of the DMA, which relates to how developers may communicate and promote offers to end users for apps distributed through the App Store as well as how developers may conclude contracts with those end users; and (2) Article 6(3) of the DMA, which relates to default settings, uninstallation of apps, and a web browser choice screen on iOS.
Product, Service and Software Announcements The Company announces new product, service and software offerings at various times during the year.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 22 Products and Services Performance The following table shows net sales by category for 2024, 2023 and 2022 (dollars in millions): 2024 Change 2023 Change 2022 iPhone $ 201,183 — % $ 200,583 (2) % $ 205,489 Mac 29,984 2 % 29,357 (27) % 40,177 iPad 26,694 (6) % 28,300 (3) % 29,292 Wearables, Home and Accessories 37,005 (7) % 39,845 (3) % 41,241 Services (1) 96,169 13 % 85,200 9 % 78,129 Total net sales $ 391,035 2 % $ 383,285 (3) % $ 394,328 (1) Services net sales include amortization of the deferred value of services bundled in the sales price of certain products.
Apple Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 34 Note 2 – Revenue The Company recognizes revenue at the amount to which it expects to be entitled when control of the products or services is transferred to its customers.
The Company has identified the performance obligations regularly included in arrangements involving the sale of iPhone, Mac and iPad.
The second material performance obligation is the right to receive certain product-related bundled services, which include iCloud®, Siri® and Maps.
Revenue allocated to the delivered hardware and bundled software is recognized when control has transferred to the customer, which generally occurs when the product is shipped.
Revenue allocated to product-related bundled services is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated period they are expected to be provided.
Net sales disaggregated by significant products and services for 2024, 2023 and 2022 were as follows (in millions): 2024 2023 2022 iPhone $ 201,183 $ 200,583 $ 205,489 Mac 29,984 29,357 40,177 iPad 26,694 28,300 29,292 Wearables, Home and Accessories 37,005 39,845 41,241 Services (1) 96,169 85,200 78,129 Total net sales $ 391,035 $ 383,285 $ 394,328 (1) Services net sales include amortization of the deferred value of services bundled in the sales price of certain products.
This includes trading in the stock of Apple suppliers, manufacturers, vendors or customers, such as cellular network carriers or other business partners.
This includes transactions involving prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars, options, warrants, puts, calls, or similar instruments related to Apple securities.
Information that is not material to Apple may be material to another company.
If you have any doubt whether information is public or material, or have questions about this policy, consult Apple’s team by emailing [***] or calling [***].
Each Designated Individual is responsible for ensuring they do not have material nonpublic information about Apple before engaging in a transaction.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Apple Inc.; 2.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Apple Inc.; 2.