PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Embracing Our Future Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence (“AI”) available broadly and doing so responsibly, with a mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.
We create platforms and tools, powered by AI, that deliver innovative solutions that meet the evolving needs of our customers.
From infrastructure and data, to business applications and collaboration, we provide unique, differentiated value to customers.
Microsoft's AI offerings, including Copilot and our Copilot stack, are already orchestrating a new era of AI transformation, driving better business outcomes across every role and industry.
What We Offer Founded in 1975, we develop and support software, services, devices, and solutions that deliver new value for customers and help people and businesses realize their full potential.
We offer an array of services, including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content, and we provide solution support and consulting services.
Our products include operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, and video games.
We also design and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
• Build the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform.
Reinvent Productivity and Business Processes At Microsoft, we provide technology and resources to help our customers create a secure, productive work environment.
Our growth depends on securely delivering continuous innovation and advancing our leading productivity and collaboration tools and services, including Microsoft 365, LinkedIn, and Dynamics 365.
Microsoft 365 is an AI first platform that brings together Office, Windows, Copilot, and Enterprise Mobility + Security to help organizations empower their employees.
Copilot for Microsoft 365 combines AI with business data in the Microsoft Graph and Microsoft 365 applications.
Microsoft Teams is a comprehensive platform for communication and collaboration, with meetings, calling, chat, file collaboration, and the ability to bring all of the applications teams use into a single place.
Microsoft Viva is an employee experience platform that brings together communications, knowledge, learning, resources, and insights.
Together, the Microsoft Cloud, Dynamics 365, Microsoft Teams, and our AI offerings bring a new era of collaborative applications for every role and business function to get insights and business impact faster.
Dynamics 365 is a portfolio of intelligent business applications that delivers operational efficiency and breakthrough customer experiences.
Our role-based extensions of Microsoft Copilot – Copilot for Sales, Copilot for Service, and Copilot for Finance – bring together the power of Copilot for Microsoft 365 with role-specific insights and workflow assistance to streamline business processes.
Copilot Studio allows customers to customize Copilot for Microsoft 365 or build their own Copilot.
Microsoft Power Platform helps domain experts drive productivity gains with low-code/no-code tools, robotic process automation, virtual agents, and business intelligence.
Build the Intelligent Cloud and Intelligent Edge Platform Digital transformation and adoption of AI continues to revolutionize more business workstreams for organizations in every sector across the globe.
For enterprises, digital technology empowers employees, optimizes operations, engages customers, and in some cases, changes the very core of products and services.
We continue to invest in high performance and sustainable computing to meet the growing demand for fast access to Microsoft services provided by our network of cloud computing and AI infrastructure and datacenters.
Our cloud business benefits from three economies of scale: datacenters that deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; datacenters that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy locations that lower application maintenance labor costs.
The Microsoft Cloud provides the best integration across the technology stack while offering openness, improving time to value, reducing costs, and increasing agility.
As the foundation of the Microsoft Cloud, Azure uniquely offers hybrid consistency, developer productivity, data and AI capabilities, and trusted security and compliance.
We offer supercomputing power for AI at scale to run large workloads, complemented by our rapidly expanding portfolio of AI cloud services and hardware, which includes custom-built silicon and strong partnerships with chip manufacturers.
We have introduced purpose-built cloud infrastructure for AI workloads including a custom AI accelerator, Azure Maia, and a custom in-house central processing unit, Azure Cobalt.
4 PART I Item 1 Our AI platform, Azure AI, is helping organizations transform, bringing intelligence and insights to the hands of their employees and customers to solve their most pressing challenges.
We offer a wide selection of industry-leading frontier and open models, including from partners, as well as state-of-the-art tooling, and AI-optimized infrastructure, delivering the Copilot stack for Microsoft, enterprises, and developers.
Organizations large and small are deploying Azure AI solutions to achieve more at scale, more easily, with the proper enterprise- level responsible AI and safety and security protections.
Azure AI Studio provides a full lifecycle toolchain customers can use to ground these models on their own data, create prompt workflows, and help ensure they are deployed and used safely.
We deploy OpenAI’s models across our consumer and enterprise products.
As OpenAI’s exclusive cloud provider, Azure powers all of OpenAI's workloads.
Our industry clouds bring together capabilities across the entire Microsoft Cloud, along with industry-specific customizations.
Azure Arc simplifies governance and management by delivering a consistent multi-cloud and on-premises management platform.
Microsoft and Nuance enable organizations to accelerate their business goals with security-focused, cloud-based solutions infused with AI.
Microsoft offers customers integrated products addressing security, compliance, identity, management, and privacy across customers’ multi-cloud, application, and device assets.
Windows 365 enables users to stream a full Windows experience from the Microsoft Cloud to any device.
Create More Personal Computing We strive to make computing more personal, enabling users to interact with technology in more intuitive, engaging, and dynamic ways.
We are committed to designing and marketing first-party devices to help drive innovation, create new device categories, and stimulate demand in the Windows ecosystem.
5 PART I Item 1 Microsoft is expanding how billions of people globally access and play video games on PC, console, mobile, and cloud.
We put game development front and center, backed by innovative hardware, experiences, and a subscription service, Xbox Game Pass, that allows those games to reach more players across more devices.
Activision Blizzard, Inc. (“Activision Blizzard”), a leader in game development and an interactive entertainment content publisher, joined Microsoft in October 2023.
Our Future Opportunity We are focused on helping customers use the breadth and depth of the Microsoft Cloud to get the most value out of their digital spend while leading the AI platform wave across our solution areas.
We continue to develop complete, intelligent solutions for our customers that empower people to be productive and collaborate, while safeguarding businesses and simplifying IT management.
We are investing significant resources in: • Transforming the workplace to deliver new modern, modular business applications, drive deeper insights, and improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, and interact with one another.
• Building and running cloud-based services in ways that utilize ubiquitous computing to unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals.
• Inventing new gaming experiences that bring people together around their shared love for games on any devices and pushing the boundaries of innovation with console and PC gaming.
• Using Windows to fuel our cloud business, grow our share of the PC market, and drive increased engagement with our services like Microsoft Edge, Bing, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Consumer, Xbox Game Pass, and more.
Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment to Sustainability Microsoft’s approach to addressing climate change starts with the sustainability of our own business.
• Reducing our water use and replenishing more water than we consume in our datacenter operations.
We remain committed to addressing racial injustice and inequity and helping improve lived experiences at Microsoft, in employees’ communities, and beyond.
Investing in Digital Skills Microsoft’s Skills for Jobs initiative aims to support a more skills-based labor market, with greater flexibility and accessible learning paths to develop the right skills needed for the most in-demand jobs.
This initiative brings together classes, Career Essentials Certificates, and other resources from LinkedIn, GitHub, and Microsoft Learn, and is built on data insights drawn from LinkedIn’s Economic Graph.
Our culture also embeds the security of customers and Microsoft as a priority for every employee and across all of our organizations.
We encourage every person at Microsoft to play an active role in creating an inclusive environment.
OPERATING SEGMENTS We operate our business and report our financial performance using three segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing.
Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms.
This segment primarily comprises: • Office Commercial (Office 365 subscriptions, the Office 365 portion of Microsoft 365 Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed on-premises), comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, Microsoft Viva, and Copilot for Microsoft 365.
• Office Consumer, including Microsoft 365 Consumer and Copilot Pro subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and other Office services.
• LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
• Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications.
8 PART I Item 1 Office Commercial Office Commercial is designed to increase personal, team, and organizational productivity through a range of products and services.
Growth depends on our ability to reach new users in new markets such as frontline workers, small and medium businesses, and growth markets, as well as add value to our core product and service offerings to span AI and productivity categories such as communication, collaboration, analytics, security, and compliance.
Office Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of continued installed base growth and average revenue per user expansion, as well as the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Office 365.
Office Consumer Office Consumer is designed to increase personal productivity and creativity through a range of products and services.
Growth depends on our ability to reach new users, add value to our core product set with new features including AI tools, and continue to expand our product and service offerings into new markets.
Office Consumer revenue is mainly affected by the percentage of customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions.
Office Consumer Services revenue is mainly affected by the demand for communication and storage through Skype, Outlook.com, and OneDrive, which is largely driven by subscriptions, advertising, and the sale of minutes.
In addition to LinkedIn’s free services, LinkedIn offers monetized solutions designed to offer AI-enabled insights and productivity: Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
Premium Subscriptions enable professionals to manage their professional identity, grow their network, find jobs, access knowledge, and connect with talent through additional services like premium search.
Sales Solutions help companies strengthen customer relationships, empower teams with digital selling tools, and acquire new opportunities.
Dynamics Dynamics provides cloud-based and on-premises business solutions for financial management, enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), customer relationship management (“CRM”), and supply chain management, as well as other low code application development platforms and AI offerings, for small and medium businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises.
Dynamics revenue is driven by the number of users licensed and applications consumed, expansion of average revenue per user, and the continued shift to Dynamics 365, a unified set of cloud-based intelligent business applications, including our low code development platforms, such as Power Apps and Power Automate.
9 PART I Item 1 Competition Competitors to Office include software and global application vendors, such as Apple, Cisco Systems, Google, Meta, Proofpoint, Slack, Symantec, Zoom, and numerous web-based and mobile application competitors as well as local application developers.
Apple distributes versions of its pre-installed application software, such as email and calendar products, through its PCs, tablets, and phones.
Web-based offerings competing with individual applications have also positioned themselves as alternatives to our products and services.
We compete by providing powerful, flexible, secure, integrated industry-specific, and easy-to-use productivity and collaboration tools and services that create comprehensive solutions and work well with technologies our customers already have both on-premises or in the cloud.
Marketing Solutions competes with online and offline outlets that generate revenue from advertisers and marketers, and Sales Solutions competes with online and offline outlets for companies with lead generation and customer intelligence and insights.
Dynamics competes with cloud-based and on-premises business solution providers such as Oracle, Salesforce, SAP, Service Now, UI Path, and WorkDay.
Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that can power modern business and developers.
This segment primarily comprises: • Server products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”); and Nuance and GitHub.
• Enterprise and partner services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience.
Server Products and Cloud Services Azure is a comprehensive set of cloud services that offer developers, IT professionals, and enterprises freedom to build, deploy, and manage applications on any platform or device.
Customers can use Azure through our global network of datacenters for computing, networking, storage, mobile and web application services, AI, Internet of Things (“IoT”), cognitive services, and machine learning.
Azure enables customers to devote more resources to development and use of applications that benefit their organizations, rather than managing on- premises hardware and software.
Azure revenue is mainly affected by infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption- based services, and per user-based services such as Enterprise Mobility + Security.
Azure AI offerings provide a competitive advantage as companies seek ways to optimize and scale their business with machine learning.
With Azure’s purpose-built, AI-optimized infrastructure, customers can use a variety of large language models and developer tools to create the next generation of AI apps and services.
Our server products are designed to make IT professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient.
This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software.
We also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers.
Server products revenue is mainly affected by purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”), and retail packaged products.
10 PART I Item 1 Nuance and GitHub include both cloud and on-premises offerings.
Enterprise and Partner Services Enterprise and Partner Services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience, assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server solutions, Microsoft desktop solutions, and Nuance conversational AI and ambient intelligent solutions, along with providing training and certification to developers and IT professionals on various Microsoft products.
Competition Azure faces diverse competition from companies such as Amazon, Broadcom, Google, IBM, Oracle, and open source offerings.
Azure’s competitive advantage includes enabling a hybrid cloud, allowing deployment of existing datacenters with our public cloud into a single, cohesive infrastructure, and the ability to run at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities.
Our Azure Security offerings include our cloud security solution and security information and event management solution, which compete with companies such as Palo Alto Networks and Cisco.
Our Enterprise Mobility + Security offerings also compete with products from a range of competitors including identity vendors, security solution vendors, and numerous other security point solution vendors.
We believe our cloud’s global scale, coupled with our broad portfolio of identity and security solutions, allows us to effectively solve complex cybersecurity challenges for our customers and differentiates us from the competition.
Our server products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches.
We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity, security, hosting, database, and e-business servers.
Commercial competitors for our server applications for PC-based distributed client-server environments include Broadcom, IBM, and Oracle.
Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from Databricks, IBM, Oracle, SAP, Snowflake, and other companies.
Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, Broadcom, Hewlett-Packard, and IBM.
Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, and other companies, and also against open source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored by IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails.
We believe our server products provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability.
Our Enterprise and Partner Services business competes with a wide range of companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies.
11 PART I Item 1 More Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology.
This segment primarily comprises: • Windows, including Windows OEM licensing and other non-volume licensing of the Windows operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings; patent licensing; and Windows Internet of Things.
• Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first-party content (such as Activision Blizzard) and third-party content, including games and in-game content; Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions; Xbox Cloud Gaming; advertising; third-party disc royalties; and other cloud services.
In addition to computing device market volume, Windows OEM revenue is impacted by: • The mix of computing devices based on form factor and screen size.
• Growth of the AI PC category • Attachment of Windows to devices shipped.
Windows Commercial revenue, which includes volume licensing of the Windows operating system and Windows cloud services such as Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, is affected mainly by the demand from commercial customers for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security offerings.
Patent licensing includes our programs to license patents we own for use across a broad array of technology areas, including mobile devices and cloud offerings.
Our devices are designed to enable people and organizations to connect to the people and content that matter most using Windows and integrated Microsoft products and services.
Growth in Devices is dependent on total PC shipments, the ability to attract new customers, our product roadmap, and expanding into new categories.
12 PART I Item 1 Gaming Our gaming platform is designed to provide a variety of entertainment through a unique combination of content, community, and cloud services.
Our game content is developed through a collection of first-party studios creating iconic and differentiated gaming experiences.
We continue to invest in new gaming studios and content to expand our intellectual property roadmap and leverage new content creators.
These unique gaming experiences are the cornerstone of Xbox Game Pass, a subscription service and gaming community with access to a curated library of over 400 first- and third-party console and PC titles.
The gamer remains at the heart of the Xbox ecosystem.
We are identifying new opportunities to attract gamers across a variety of different end points through our first- and third-party content and business diversification across subscriptions, ads, and digital stores.
We’ve seen new devices from third-party manufacturers along with key PC and mobile end points that help us empower gamers to play in a way that is most convenient to them.
We are focused on growing the platform and expanding to new ecosystems to engage as many gamers as possible.
Xbox enables people to connect and share online gaming experiences that are accessible on Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and other devices.
Xbox is designed to benefit users by providing access to a network of certified applications and services and to benefit our developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base.
Xbox revenue is mainly affected by subscriptions and sales of first- and third-party content, as well as advertising.
Growth of our Gaming business is determined by the overall active user base through Xbox enabled content, availability of games, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the devices used to access our content and services, and the ability to create new experiences.
In addition to first-party tools, we have several partnerships with companies, such as Yahoo, through which we provide and monetize search offerings.
We believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, and compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity.
Xbox and our cloud gaming services face competition from various online gaming ecosystems and game streaming services, including those operated by Amazon, Apple, Meta, and Tencent.
We also compete with other providers of entertainment services such as video streaming platforms.
Our gaming platform competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both of which have a large, established base of customers.
We believe our gaming platform is effectively positioned against, and uniquely differentiated from, competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong content from our own first-party game franchises as well as other digital content offerings.
13 PART I Item 1 OPERATIONS We have regional operations service centers that support our operations, including customer contract and order processing, billing, credit and collections, customer lifecycle operations, information processing, and vendor management and logistics.
In addition to our operations centers, we also operate datacenters throughout each of these regions.
We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services.
Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other components.
• Cloud and AI – focuses on making IT professionals, developers, partners, independent software vendors, and their systems more productive and efficient through development of Azure AI platform and cloud infrastructure, server, database, CRM, ERP, software development tools and services, AI cognitive services, and other business process applications and services for enterprises.
• Experiences and Devices – focuses on delivering high value end-user experiences across our products, services, and devices, including Microsoft 365, Windows, Microsoft Teams, and the Surface line of devices.
• Microsoft AI – focuses on delivering online experiences targeted at consumers (including Bing, Copilot, Start/MSN, and other advertising-based services) and developing advanced AI models.
• Microsoft Security – focuses on delivering a comprehensive portfolio of services that protect our customers’ digital infrastructure through cloud platform and application security, data protection and governance, identity and network access, and device management.
• Gaming – focuses on developing hardware, content, and services across a large range of platforms to help grow our user base through game experiences and social interaction.
Before releasing new software platforms, and as we make significant modifications to existing platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing.
We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding.
We may also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products and services.
We invest in a range of emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that we believe offer significant opportunities to deliver value to our customers and growth for the company.
Based on our assessment of key technology trends, we maintain our long-term commitment to research and development across a wide spectrum of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning digital work and life experiences, cloud computing, AI, devices, and operating systems.
DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING We market and distribute our products and services through the following channels: OEMs, direct, and distributors and resellers.
Our sales organization performs a variety of functions, including working directly with commercial enterprises and public-sector organizations worldwide to identify and meet their technology and digital transformation requirements; managing OEM relationships; and supporting system integrators, independent software vendors, and other partners who engage directly with our customers to perform sales, consulting, and fulfillment functions for our products and services.
OEMs We distribute our products and services through OEMs that pre-install our software on new devices and servers they sell.
OEMs also sell devices pre-installed with other Microsoft products and services, including applications such as Office and the capability to subscribe to Microsoft 365 Consumer.
We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, and with many regional and local OEMs.
15 PART I Item 1 Direct Many organizations that license our products and services transact directly with us through Enterprise Agreements and Enterprise Services contracts, with sales support from system integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and partners that advise organizations on licensing our products and services (“Enterprise Agreement Software Advisors” or “ESA”).
Microsoft offers direct sales programs targeted to reach small, medium, and corporate customers, in addition to those offered through the reseller channel.
We also sell commercial and consumer products and services directly to customers, such as cloud services, search, and gaming, through our digital marketplaces and online stores.
Additionally, our Microsoft Experience Centers are designed to facilitate deeper engagement with our partners and customers across industries.
ESAs are also typically authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for our other volume licensing programs.
Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider is our main partner program for reselling cloud services.
We distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets.
We distribute our devices through third-party retailers.
Our Dynamics business solutions are also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services.
LICENSING OPTIONS We offer options for organizations of varying sizes that want to purchase our cloud services and on-premise software.
We license these organizations under volume licensing agreements to allow the customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services instead of having to acquire separate licenses through retail channels.
Software Assurance (“SA”) conveys rights to new software and upgrades for perpetual licenses released over the contract period.
It also provides support, tools, training, and other licensing benefits to help customers deploy and use software efficiently.
SA is required to be purchased with certain volume licensing agreements and is an optional purchase with others.
16 PART I Item 1 Volume Licensing Programs Enterprise Agreement Enterprise Agreements offer large organizations a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement.
Enterprise Agreements are designed for medium or large organizations that want to license Microsoft products and services organization-wide over a three-year period.
Organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses (covered with SA) and/or subscribe to cloud services.
Microsoft Customer Agreement Microsoft Customer Agreements are simplified purchase agreements presented, accepted, and stored through a digital experience.
Microsoft Customer Agreements are non-expiring agreements that are designed to support all customers over time, whether purchasing through a partner or directly from Microsoft.
Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement Microsoft Online Subscription Agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to subscribe to, activate, provision, and maintain cloud services seamlessly and directly via the web.
These agreements allow customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based services.
Microsoft Products and Services Agreement Microsoft Products and Services Agreements are designed for medium and large organizations that want to license cloud services and on- premises software as needed, with no organization-wide commitment, under a single, non-expiring agreement.
Organizations purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses.
SA is optional for customers that purchase perpetual licenses.
These agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software over a three-year period.
Under Open Value agreements, organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses and SA is included.
Organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA is optional.
Partner Programs The Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider Program offers customers an easy way to license the cloud services they need in combination with the value-added services offered by their systems integrator, managed services provider, or cloud reseller partner.
Partners in this program can easily package their own products and services to directly provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions.
The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement allows hosting service providers and independent software vendors who want to license eligible Microsoft software products to provide hosted applications and software services to their end customers.
Partners license software over a three-year period and are billed monthly based on units licensed.
The Independent Software Vendor Royalty Program enables partners to integrate Microsoft products into other applications and then license the unified business solution to their end users.
17 PART I Item 1 CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs.
While we intended to create a unified approach to regulatory compliance, some of the programs and processes established pursuant to the framework are tailored to meet specific regulatory obligations, such as with the creation of independent compliance functions required by the European Union (“EU”) Digital Markets Act and the EU Digital Services Act, which oversee, monitor, and assess the company’s compliance with these acts.
Prior to that, Mr. Numoto served as a Corporate Vice President for Office 365 Marketing from 2004, where he led the transformation from traditional on-premises packaged software to the introduction of Office 365.
AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address is www.microsoft.com.
• Announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies.
We publish a variety of reports and resources related to our Corporate Social Responsibility programs and progress on our Reports Hub website, www.microsoft.com/corporate-responsibility/reports-hub, including reports on sustainability, responsible sourcing, accessibility, digital trust, and public policy engagement.
Barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services.
Competition among platform-based ecosystems An important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions.
A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth.
• A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as PCs, tablets, smartphones, gaming consoles, wearables, and other endpoint devices.
Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces.
They may also be able to claim security and performance benefits from their vertically integrated offer.
We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services.
• We derive substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating systems on PCs.
We face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablets.
Popular products or services offered on competing platforms could increase their competitive strength.
• Competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases.
The variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions.
Users may incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms.
Efforts to compete with competitors’ content and application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins.
Competitors’ rules governing their content and applications marketplaces may restrict our ability to distribute products and services through them in accordance with our technical and business model objectives.
• A material part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices.
We and our competitors are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies.
• Even as we transition more of our business to infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business model, the license- based proprietary software model generates a substantial portion of our software revenue.
We bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products.
Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model.
• Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services, and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising.
Advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at little or no cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.
• Some companies compete with us by modifying and then distributing open source software at little or no cost to end users, using open source AI models, and earning revenue on advertising or integrated products and services.
Some open source products mimic the features and functionality of our products.
Our focus on cloud-based and AI services presents execution and competitive risks.
We are incurring significant costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing and AI services.
Whether we succeed in cloud-based and AI services depends on our execution in several areas, including: • Continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based and AI experiences and products that generate increasing traffic and market share.
• Maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based and AI services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices.
• Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers.
• Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations and specific requirements of our customers and maintain the security of their data as well as help them meet their own compliance needs.
• Making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors.
In addition, some users may also engage in fraudulent or abusive activities through our cloud-based services, such as unauthorized account access, payment fraud, or terms of service violations including cryptocurrency mining or launching cyberattacks.
While are committed to detecting and controlling such misuse of our cloud-based and AI services, our efforts may not be effective, and we may incur reputational damage or experience adverse impacts to our business and results of operations.
In addition, we are focused on developing new AI platform services and incorporating AI into existing products and services.
We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment, including PCs, tablets, and gaming devices.
If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue.
We could experience significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services.
The success of these transactions and arrangements depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones, as well as the acquired companies’ ability to meet our policies and processes in areas such as data governance, privacy, and cybersecurity.
22 PART I Item 1A CYBERSECURITY, DATA PRIVACY, AND PLATFORM ABUSE RISKS Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position.
These actors use a wide variety of methods, which include developing and deploying malicious software; exploiting known and potential vulnerabilities or intentionally designed processes in hardware, software, or other infrastructure to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters; using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose sensitive information, such as passwords, or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data; or acting in a coordinated manner or conducting coordinated attacks.
Inadequate account security or organizational security practices, including those of companies we have acquired or those of the third parties we utilize, have resulted and may result in unauthorized access to our IT systems and data, including customer systems and data, in the future.
We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer- oriented technologies.
Security of our products, services, devices, and customers’ data The security of our products and services is important in our customers’ decisions to purchase or use our products or services across cloud and on-premises environments.
Customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data.
In addition, adversaries can attack our customers’ on-premises or cloud environments, sometimes exploiting previously unknown (“zero-day”) vulnerabilities, such as the attack in early calendar year 2021 with several of our Exchange Server on- premises products.
Adversaries will continue to attack customers using our cloud services as customers embrace digital transformation.
Inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access, and user activity may result in ransomware or other malicious software impacting a customer’s use of our products or services.
Our customers operate complex IT systems with third-party hardware and software from multiple vendors that may include systems acquired over many years.
They expect our products and services to support all these systems and products, including those that no longer incorporate the strongest current security advances or standards.
Further, customers of widely varied sizes and technical sophistication use our technology, and consequently may still have limited capabilities and resources to help them adopt and implement state-of-the-art cybersecurity practices and technologies.
We are committed to notifying our customers whose systems have been impacted as we become aware and have actionable information for customers to help protect themselves.
24 PART I Item 1A Development and deployment of defensive measures To defend against security threats to our internal IT systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security, threat detection, and reliability features, escalate and improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others in a timely manner, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide security tools such as firewalls, anti-virus software, and advanced security and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so.
The cost of measures to protect products and customer-facing services could reduce our operating margins.
If we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services, data corruption issues, or reduced performance could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services.
Customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services.
As we continue to grow the number, breadth, and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personal data of our customers and users.
Our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or in a cloud-based environment we host.
Despite our efforts to protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities.
Additional security measures we may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may increase costs or hinder sales of our products and services.
LinkedIn and other Microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures.
25 PART I Item 1A Abuse of our platforms may harm our reputation or user engagement.
Regulations and other initiatives to make platforms responsible for preventing or eliminating harmful content online have been enacted, and we expect this to continue.
Our products and services, how they are used by customers, and how third-party products and services interact with them, may present security, privacy, and execution risks.
Further, customers control our products and services, including our AI products, within their environments, and may deploy them in high-risk scenarios or utilize them inappropriately.
Our customers also operate complex IT systems with third-party hardware and software from multiple vendors whose products or personnel may take or fail to take actions which impact the reliability or security of our products and services.
We are building AI into many of our offerings, including our productivity services, and we are also making AI available for our customers to use in solutions that they build.
We envision a future in which AI operating in devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers be more productive in their work and personal lives.
26 PART I Item 1A OPERATIONAL RISKS We may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure.
Our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power.
We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters.
Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units and other components.
These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth and the augmentation of existing services, including through the incorporation of AI features and/or functionality.
We are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users.
It requires that we maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure and storage and compute capacity that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve.
Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, outages, insufficient Internet connectivity, insufficient or unavailable power or water supply, or inadequate storage and compute capacity could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
There are limited suppliers for certain device and datacenter components.
We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services.
Datacenter servers, Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other hardware are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages which may adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our software products and services also may experience quality or reliability problems.
Our customers increasingly rely on us for critical business functions and multiple workloads.
Many of our products and services are interdependent on one another.
Our products and services may be impacted by interaction with third-party products and services.
Our customers may also utilize their own or third-party products and services whose reliability is dependent on interaction with our products and services.
Our hardware products such as Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other devices we design and market are highly complex.
For example, the European Commission (“the Commission”) has designated Windows and LinkedIn as core platform services subject to obligations under the EU Digital Markets Act, which prohibits certain self-preferencing behaviors and places limitations on certain data use among other obligations.
The Commission also continues to closely scrutinize the design of high-volume Microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies.
Flagship product releases such as Microsoft 365 and Windows can receive significant scrutiny under EU or other competition laws.
Our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time, our OEM partners offer a large variety of devices for our platforms.
U.S. export controls restrict Microsoft from offering many of its products and services to, or making investments in, certain entities in specified countries.
The growth of our Internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries.
In the EU and other markets, potential new rules and restrictions on the flow of data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services.
More recently, the EU has been developing new requirements related to the use of data, including in the Digital Markets Act, the Digital Services Act, and the Data Act, that add additional rules and restriction on the use of data in our products and services.
We might experience reduced demand for our offerings if we are unable to engineer products that meet our legal duties or help our customers meet their obligations under these and other data regulations, or if our implementation to comply makes our offerings less attractive.
Our investment in gaining insights from data is becoming central to the value of the services we deliver to customers, including AI services, to operational efficiency and key opportunities in monetization, and to customer perceptions of quality.
Ongoing legal analyses, reviews, and inquiries by regulators of Microsoft practices, or relevant practices of other organizations, may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements, including data sovereignty and localization requirements, affecting the location, movement, collection, and use of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data.
We are subject to a wide range of laws, regulations, and legal requirements in the U.S. and globally, including those that may apply to our products and online services offerings, and those that impose requirements related to user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, digital accessibility, advertising, and online content.
This trend may continue and will result in these offerings being subject to additional data protection, security, law enforcement surveillance, and other obligations.
In addition, laws requiring us to retrieve and produce customer data in response to compulsory legal demands from law enforcement and governmental authorities are expanding and the requests we are experiencing are increasing in volume and complexity.
Legislative or regulatory action relating to cybersecurity requirements may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services.
These claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases, AI services, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, employment practices, and regulation.
To resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty-bearing data access or licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers.
Damage to our reputation or our brands may occur from, among other things: • The introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like.
• Data security breaches, cybersecurity incidents, responsible AI failures, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees.
Our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network.
Providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans and magnifies the potential negative consequences of prolonged service outages.
Changes in climate where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services.
We have made it the top corporate priority to protect the computing environment used by our customers and employees and to support the resiliency of our cloud infrastructure and services, products, devices, and our internal corporate resources from determined adversaries.
Our computing environments, products, and services are reviewed by our internal audit teams as well as independent third-party assessors.
We continuously monitor our computing environments, products, and services for vulnerabilities and signs of compromise, and we utilize our own security products to combat cybersecurity threats.
We integrate security into our computing environments, products, and services through our Security Development Lifecycle (“SDL”).
We require third-party service providers to manage their cybersecurity risks in defined ways, undergo cybersecurity reviews, notify us of cyber events, and satisfy additional contractual requirements.
We also establish processes and innovate solutions for us and our customers to address the growing number and complexity of cybersecurity regulations.
As discussed above, our business strategy is tied to the SFI and we are committed to continuously monitoring cybersecurity threats, enhancing the security of our products, investing in our cybersecurity infrastructure, and collaborating with peers, customers, service providers, regulators, and governments to advance our and the entire digital ecosystem’s cybersecurity defenses and resiliency.
OVERVIEW Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence (“AI”) available broadly and doing so responsibly, with a mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.
We create platforms and tools, powered by AI, that deliver innovative solutions that meet the evolving needs of our customers.
We generate revenue by offering a wide range of cloud-based solutions, content, and other services to people and businesses; licensing and supporting an array of software products; delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience; and designing and selling devices.
Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; supporting and investing in our cloud-based services, including datacenter operations; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our other products and services; and income taxes.
Highlights from fiscal year 2024 compared with fiscal year 2023 included: • Microsoft Cloud revenue increased 23% to $137.4 billion.
• Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 14% driven by Office 365 Commercial growth of 16%.
• Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased 4% and Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers grew to 82.5 million.
• Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased 19% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 24%.
• Server products and cloud services revenue increased 22% driven by Azure and other cloud services growth of 30%.
• Windows revenue increased 8% with Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (“Windows OEM”) revenue growth of 7% and Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue growth of 11%.
• Xbox content and services revenue increased 50% driven by 44 points of net impact from the Activision Blizzard Inc. (“Activision Blizzard”) acquisition.
The net impact reflects the change of Activision Blizzard content from third-party to first-party.
Activision Blizzard is reported as part of our More Personal Computing segment.
At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces.
Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive.
Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses.
The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, influencing how users access services in the cloud and, in some cases, the user’s choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use.
Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is also correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic.
The investments we are making in cloud and AI infrastructure and devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins.
We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services.
Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other components.
Change in Accounting Estimate In July 2022, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our server and network equipment.
40 PART II Item 7 Reportable Segments We report our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2024, we made updates to the presentation and method of calculation for certain metrics, revising our Microsoft Cloud revenue metric to include revenue growth and expanding our Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers metric to include Microsoft 365 Basic subscribers, aligning with how we manage our business.
Commercial Our commercial business primarily consists of Server products and cloud services, Office Commercial, Windows Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Enterprise and partner services, and Dynamics.
Commercial remaining performance obligation Commercial portion of revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods Microsoft Cloud revenue and revenue growth Revenue from Azure and other cloud services, Office 365 Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Dynamics 365, and other commercial cloud properties Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage Gross margin percentage for our Microsoft Cloud business 41 PART II Item 7 Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud Metrics related to our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments assess the health of our core businesses within these segments.
The metrics reflect our cloud and on-premises product strategies and trends.
These metrics provide strategic product insights which allow us to assess the performance across our commercial and consumer businesses.
Intelligent Cloud revenue increased driven by Azure.
Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased driven by Office 365 Commercial.
More Personal Computing revenue increased driven by Gaming.
Cost of revenue increased $8.3 billion or 13% driven by growth in Microsoft Cloud and Gaming, offset in part by a decline in Devices.
Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased slightly driven by improvements in Azure and Office 365 Commercial, inclusive of scaling our AI infrastructure, offset in part by sales mix shift to Azure.
Operating expenses increased $4.0 billion or 7% driven by Gaming, with 7 points of growth from the Activision Blizzard acquisition, and investments in cloud engineering, offset in part by the prior year Q2 charge.
43 PART II Item 7 SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Percentage (In millions, except percentages) 2024 2023 Change Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 77,728 $ 69,274 12% Intelligent Cloud 105,362 87,907 20% More Personal Computing 62,032 54,734 13% Total $ 245,122 $ 211,915 16% Operating Income Productivity and Business Processes $ 40,540 $ 34,189 19% Intelligent Cloud 49,584 37,884 31% More Personal Computing 19,309 16,450 17% Total $ 109,433 $ 88,523 24% Reportable Segments Fiscal Year 2024 Compared with Fiscal Year 2023 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $8.5 billion or 12%.
• Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $5.8 billion or 14%.
Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 16% with seat growth of 7%, driven by small and medium business and frontline worker offerings, as well as growth in revenue per user.
Office Commercial products revenue declined 16% driven by continued customer shift to cloud offerings.
• Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $237 million or 4%.
Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers grew 10% to 82.5 million.
• Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased $1.0 billion or 19% driven by Dynamics 365.
Dynamics 365 revenue grew 24% driven by growth across all workloads.
Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $17.5 billion or 20%.
• Server products and cloud services revenue increased $17.8 billion or 22% driven by Azure and other cloud services.
Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 30% driven by growth in our consumption-based services.
Server products revenue increased 3% driven by continued demand for our hybrid solutions, including Windows Server and SQL Server running in multi- cloud environments.
• Operating expenses decreased slightly primarily driven by the prior year Q2 charge, offset in part by investments in Azure.
More Personal Computing Revenue increased $7.3 billion or 13%.
Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 11% driven by demand for Microsoft 365.
• Gaming revenue increased $6.0 billion or 39% driven by growth in Xbox content and services.
Xbox content and services revenue increased 50% driven by 44 points of net impact from the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
• Operating expenses increased $3.9 billion or 31% driven by Gaming, with 34 points of growth from the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs and the amortization of purchased software code and services content.
Fiscal Year 2024 Compared with Fiscal Year 2023 Research and development expenses increased $2.3 billion or 9% driven by Gaming, with 7 points of growth from the Activision Blizzard acquisition, and investments in cloud engineering.
Fiscal Year 2024 Compared with Fiscal Year 2023 Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.7 billion or 7% driven by Gaming, with 6 points of growth from the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include Software Assurance (“SA”) and cloud services.
The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of June 30, 2024: (In millions) Three Months Ending September 30, 2024 $ 22,529 December 31, 2024 17,664 March 31, 2025 12,076 June 30, 2025 5,313 Thereafter 2,602 Total $ 60,184 If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable.
(d) Purchase commitments primarily relate to datacenters and include open purchase orders and take-or-pay contracts that are not presented as construction commitments above.
Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff.
We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings and our investments in AI infrastructure and training.
We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment.
Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time.
Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation.
Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Revenue Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Product revenue includes sales from operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, video games, and hardware such as PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
Service and other revenue includes sales from cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content such as Office 365, Azure, Dynamics 365, and gaming; solution support; and consulting services.
Service and other revenue also includes sales from online advertising and LinkedIn.
We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Nature of Products and Services Licenses for on-premises software provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists when made available to the customer.
Customers may purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses, which provide customers with the same functionality and differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software.
Revenue from distinct on-premises licenses is recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer.
In cases where we allocate revenue to software updates, primarily because the updates are provided at no additional charge, revenue is recognized as the updates are provided, which is generally ratably over the estimated life of the related device or license.
Certain volume licensing programs, including Enterprise Agreements, include on-premises licenses combined with Software Assurance (“SA”).
SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades released over the contract period and provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use products more efficiently.
On-premises licenses are considered distinct performance obligations when sold with SA.
Revenue allocated to SA is generally recognized ratably over the contract period as customers simultaneously consume and receive benefits, given that SA comprises distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
Cloud services, which allow customers to use hosted software over the contract period without taking possession of the software, are provided on either a subscription or consumption basis.
Revenue related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis is recognized ratably over the contract period.
Revenue related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as the amount of storage used in a period, is recognized based on the customer utilization of such resources.
When cloud services require a significant level of integration and interdependency with software and the individual components are not considered distinct, all revenue is recognized over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
In these cases, the hardware and software license are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to resellers or directly to end customers through retail stores and online marketplaces.
When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time.
Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation.
Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include SA and cloud services.
Unearned revenue also includes payments for consulting services to be performed in the future, LinkedIn subscriptions, Office 365 subscriptions, Xbox subscriptions, Windows post-delivery support, Dynamics business solutions, and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.
Examples include invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, and multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related to product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred to include software on PCs sold by original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”), to drive traffic to our websites, and to acquire online advertising space; costs incurred to support and maintain cloud-based and other online products and services, including datacenter costs and royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery of consulting services; and the amortization of capitalized software development costs.
Capitalized software development costs are amortized over the estimated lives of the products.
Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs and the amortization of purchased software code and services content.
Activision Blizzard is a leader in game development and an interactive entertainment content publisher.
The acquisition will accelerate the growth in our gaming business across mobile, PC, console, and cloud gaming.
Activision Blizzard is reported as part of our More Personal Computing segment.
The goodwill was primarily attributed to increased synergies that are expected to be achieved from the integration of Activision Blizzard.
76 PART II Item 8 Following are the details of the purchase price allocated to the intangible assets acquired: Weighted (In millions, except average life) Amount Average Life Marketing-related $ 11,619 24 years Technology-based 9,689 4 years Customer-related 661 4 years Fair value of intangible assets acquired $ 21,969 15 years Following is the net impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition on our consolidated income statements since the date of acquisition: (In millions) Year Ended June 30, 2024 Revenue $ 5,729 Operating loss (1,362) The change of Activision Blizzard content from third-party to first-party is reflected in the net impact.
The major classes of assets and liabilities to which we have allocated the purchase price were as follows: (In millions) Goodwill (a) $ 16,326 Intangible assets 4,365 Other assets 42 Other liabilities (b) (1,972) Total $ 18,761 (a) Goodwill was assigned to our Intelligent Cloud segment and was primarily attributed to increased synergies that are expected to be achieved from the integration of Nuance.
77 PART II Item 8 Following are the details of the purchase price allocated to the intangible assets acquired: Weighted (In millions, except average life) Amount Average Life Customer-related $ 2,610 9 years Technology-based 1,540 5 years Marketing-related 215 4 years Total $ 4,365 7 years NOTE 9 — GOODWILL Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows: June 30, June 30, June 30, (In millions) 2022 Acquisitions Other 2023 Acquisitions Other 2024 Productivity and Business Processes $ 24,811 $ 11 $ (47) $ 24,775 $ 0 $ 2 $ 24,777 Intelligent Cloud 30,182 223 64 30,469 0 (28) 30,441 More Personal Computing 12,531 0 111 12,642 51,235(a) 125(a) 64,002 Total $ 67,524 $ 234 $ 128 $ 67,886 $ 51,235 $ 99 $ 119,220 (a) Includes goodwill of $51.0 billion related to Activision Blizzard.
78 PART II Item 8 NOTE 10 — INTANGIBLE ASSETS The components of intangible assets, all of which are finite-lived, were as follows: Gross Gross Carrying Accumulated Net Carrying Carrying Accumulated Net Carrying (In millions) Amount Amortization Amount Amount Amortization Amount June 30, 2024 2023 Marketing-related $ 16,500 $ (3,101) $ 13,399 $ 4,935 $ (2,473) $ 2,462 Technology-based 21,913 (10,741) 11,172 11,245 (7,589) 3,656 Customer-related 6,038 (3,051) 2,987 7,281 (4,047) 3,234 Contract-based 58 (19) 39 29 (15) 14 Total $ 44,509(a) $ (16,912) $ 27,597 $ 23,490 $ (14,124) $ 9,366 (a) Includes intangible assets of $22.0 billion related to Activision Blizzard.
NOTE 13 — UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue by segment was as follows: (In millions) June 30, 2024 2023 Productivity and Business Processes $ 30,879 $ 27,572 Intelligent Cloud 23,117 21,563 More Personal Computing 6,188 4,678 Total $ 60,184 $ 53,813 Changes in unearned revenue were as follows: (In millions) Year Ended June 30, 2024 Balance, beginning of period $ 53,813 Deferral of revenue 148,701 Recognition of unearned revenue (142,330) Balance, end of period $ 60,184 Revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods, was $275 billion as of June 30, 2024, of which $269 billion is related to the commercial portion of revenue.
84 PART II Item 8 NOTE 14 — LEASES We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment.
Microsoft cooperated throughout the period of inquiry.
During the periods presented, we reported our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing.
Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms.
This segment primarily comprises: • Office Commercial (Office 365 subscriptions, the Office 365 portion of Microsoft 365 Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed on-premises), comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, Microsoft Viva, and Copilot for Microsoft 365.
• Office Consumer, including Microsoft 365 Consumer and Copilot Pro subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and other Office services.
• LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
• Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications.
Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that can power modern business and developers.
This segment primarily comprises: • Server products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”); and Nuance and GitHub.
• Enterprise and partner services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience.
More Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology.
This segment primarily comprises: • Windows, including Windows OEM licensing and other non-volume licensing of the Windows operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings; patent licensing; and Windows Internet of Things.
91 PART II Item 8 • Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first-party content (such as Activision Blizzard) and third-party content, including games and in-game content; Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions; Xbox Cloud Gaming; advertising; third-party disc royalties; and other cloud services.
These allocated costs generally include legal, including settlements and fines, information technology, human resources, finance, excise taxes, field selling, shared facilities services, customer service and support, and severance incurred as part of a corporate program.
Segment revenue and operating income were as follows during the periods presented: (In millions) Year Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2022 Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 77,728 $ 69,274 $ 63,364 Intelligent Cloud 105,362 87,907 74,965 More Personal Computing 62,032 54,734 59,941 Total $ 245,122 $ 211,915 $ 198,270 Operating Income Productivity and Business Processes $ 40,540 $ 34,189 $ 29,690 Intelligent Cloud 49,584 37,884 33,203 More Personal Computing 19,309 16,450 20,490 Total $ 109,433 $ 88,523 $ 83,383 No sales to an individual customer or country other than the United States accounted for more than 10% of revenue for fiscal years 2024, 2023, or 2022.
92 PART II Item 8 Revenue, classified by significant product and service offerings, was as follows: (In millions) Year Ended June 30, 2024 2023 2022 Server products and cloud services $ 97,726 $ 79,970 $ 67,350 Office products and cloud services 54,875 48,848 44,970 Windows 23,244 21,507 24,732 Gaming 21,503 15,466 16,230 LinkedIn 16,372 14,989 13,631 Search and news advertising 12,576 12,158 11,526 Enterprise and partner services 7,594 7,900 7,605 Dynamics products and cloud services 6,481 5,437 4,687 Devices 4,706 5,521 7,306 Other 45 119 233 Total $ 245,122 $ 211,915 $ 198,270 We have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business.
Our Microsoft Cloud revenue, which includes Azure and other cloud services, Office 365 Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Dynamics 365, and other commercial cloud properties, was $137.4 billion, $111.6 billion, and $91.4 billion in fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively.
These amounts are primarily included in Server products and cloud services, Office products and cloud services, LinkedIn, and Dynamics products and cloud services in the table above.
The Company offers customers the ability to acquire multiple licenses of software products and services, including cloud-based services, in its customer agreements through its volume licensing programs.
94 PART II Item 8 Significant judgment is exercised by the Company in determining revenue recognition for certain customer agreements, and includes the following: • Determination of whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together, such as software licenses and related services that are sold with cloud-based services.
• Identification and treatment of contract terms that may impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized (e.g., variable consideration, optional purchases, and free services).
• We evaluated management's significant accounting policies related to certain customer agreements for reasonableness.
MICROSOFT CORPORATION /s/ ALICE L. JOLLA Alice L. Jolla Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Registrant and in the capacities indicated on July 30, 2024.
The purpose of the Microsoft Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to further the long-term growth of Microsoft Corporation (the "Company") by allowing selected Company executives and other senior management or highly compensated employees to defer receipt of certain compensation in order to keep such employees’ financial interests aligned with the Company and provide them with a long-term incentive to continue employment with the Company.
401(k) Plan - means the Microsoft Corporation Savings Plus 401(k) Plan.
Name Where Incorporated Microsoft Ireland Research Ireland Microsoft Global Finance Ireland Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited Ireland Microsoft Online, Inc. United States LinkedIn Corporation United States LinkedIn Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland Nuance Communications, Inc. United States Activision Blizzard, Inc. United States Activision Publishing, Inc. United States Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation; 2.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation; 2.