The lines of business within Entertainment along with their significant business activities include the following: • Linear Networks ◦ Domestic: ABC Television Network (ABC Network); Disney, Freeform, FX and National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) branded television channels; and eight owned ABC television stations ◦ International: Disney, FX, National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) and Star branded general entertainment television channels outside of the U.S. ◦ A 50% equity investment in A+E Television Networks (A+E), which operates cable channels including A&E, HISTORY and Lifetime • Direct-to-Consumer ◦ Disney+: a global direct-to-consumer (DTC) service that primarily offers general entertainment and family programming ◦ Disney+ Hotstar: a DTC service primarily in India that offers general entertainment, family and sports programming.
◦ Hulu: a U.S. DTC service that offers general entertainment and family programming and a digital over-the-top (OTT) service that includes live linear streams of various cable and broadcast networks.
cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital OTT service providers) (MVPDs) for the right to deliver our programming to their customers.
• Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our films to theaters • TV/VOD distribution - Licensing fees for the right to use our film and episodic content 2 • Home entertainment distribution - Electronic sales and rentals of film and episodic content through distributors and royalties from the licensing of physical distribution rights • Other revenue - Revenues from licensing our music, ticket sales from stage play performances, fees from licensing our IP for use in stage plays, sales of post-production services and the allocation of consumer products merchandise licensing revenues The significant expenses of Entertainment are as follows: • Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs.
Programming and production costs include the following: ◦ Amortization of capitalized production costs ◦ Amortization of the costs of licensed programming rights ◦ Subscriber-based fees for programming our Hulu Live service, including fees paid by Hulu to the Sports segment and other Entertainment segment businesses for the right to air their linear networks on Hulu Live ◦ Production costs related to live programming (primarily news) ◦ Participations and residual expenses ◦ Fees paid to the Sports segment to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Disney+ • Selling, general and administrative costs, including marketing costs • Depreciation and amortization Linear Networks The majority of Linear Networks revenue is derived from affiliate fees and advertising.
The Company’s Linear Networks businesses provide programming under multi-year licensing agreements with MVPDs and/or affiliated television stations that are generally based on contractually specified rates on a per subscriber basis.
Disney Channels Branded television channels include: Disney Channel; Disney Junior; and Disney XD (collectively Disney Channels).
National Geographic Channels Branded television channels include: National Geographic; Nat Geo Wild; and Nat Geo Mundo (collectively National Geographic Channels).
3 The number of subscribers (in millions) for the significant domestic branded channels are as follows: Subscribers(1) Disney Channel 66 Freeform 55 FX 67 National Geographic 66 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2024.
Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts.
The stations we own are as follows: Television Market TV Station Market Ranking(1) WABC New York, NY 1 KABC Los Angeles, CA 2 WLS Chicago, IL 3 WPVI Philadelphia, PA 4 KTRK Houston, TX 6 KGO San Francisco, CA 10 WTVD Raleigh-Durham, NC 22 KFSN Fresno, CA 52 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2024 International Linear Networks International Linear Networks use content from the Company’s various studios, including library titles, as well as content acquired from third parties.
The Company operates approximately 265 general entertainment and family channels outside the U.S. in approximately 40 languages and 175 countries/territories.
As of September 2024, the estimated number of unique subscribers for our general entertainment channels, based on internal management reports, was approximately 240 million.
As of September 2024, the estimated number of unique subscribers for our family channels, based on internal management reports, was approximately 200 million.
A+E operates a variety of cable channels, including: • A&E – which offers entertainment programming including original reality and documentary programming • HISTORY – which offers original unscripted series and event-driven specials • Lifetime – which offers programming targeted to women The number of domestic subscribers, based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2024, are 58 million for each of A&E, HISTORY and Lifetime and include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts.
4 Direct-to-Consumer Disney+, Disney+ Hotstar and Hulu are subscription services that provide video streaming of the Company’s general entertainment and family programming and similar programming from third parties.
The services are offered individually or in various bundles, which may include ESPN+ (see Sports segment discussion), to customers directly or through third-party distributors on mobile and internet connected devices.
The majority of Direct-to-Consumer revenue is derived from subscription fees and advertising.
Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar Disney+ is a subscription-based DTC service with Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars and National Geographic branded programming, which are all top-level selections or “tiles” within the Disney+ interface.
In certain Latin American countries prior to July 2024, we offered Disney+ as well as Star+, a standalone service with a variety of general entertainment and family content and live sports programming.
Disney+ Hotstar is a subscription-based DTC service available in India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand.
As of September 28, 2024, the estimated number of paid Disney+ Hotstar subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 36 million.
Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar offer content from the Company’s various studios, including library titles, as well as content acquired from third parties.
The majority of Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar revenue is derived from subscription fees and, to a lesser extent, advertising.
Hulu Hulu is a domestic subscription-based DTC service with general entertainment content from the Company’s various studios as well as content licensed from third parties.
Hulu’s revenue is derived from subscription fees and advertising.
Hulu offers subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) services with or without advertising in addition to a digital OTT MVPD (Live TV) service.
The Live TV service is available with either of Hulu’s SVOD services and includes live linear streams of various cable and broadcast networks.
Certain programming from ABC Network, Freeform and FX Channels is also available on the Hulu SVOD service one day after the linear airing on these channels.
As of September 28, 2024, the estimated number of paid Hulu subscribers, based on internal management reports, was approximately 52 million.
Content Sales/Licensing and Other The majority of Content Sales/Licensing revenue is derived from TV/VOD, theatrical and home entertainment distribution.
TV/VOD Distribution We license our content to third-party television networks, television stations and other video service providers for distribution to viewers on television or a variety of internet-connected devices, including through other DTC services.
In the domestic and most major international markets, we generally distribute and market our films directly.
In some territories, certain films may be exclusively distributed on our DTC streaming services.
Home Entertainment Distribution The Company’s film and episodic content is sold in both electronic (home video license and video-on-demand rentals) and physical (DVD and Blu-ray disc) formats.
We distribute through e-tailers such as Apple and Amazon, and MVPDs, such as Comcast and DirecTV, for electronic distribution.
We have licensed the rights for physical distribution to third parties who generally sell to retailers, such as Walmart and Amazon.
We also license titles to video-on-demand e-tailers within five weeks after physical home entertainment distribution.
Disney Music Group distributes music both physically and digitally and also licenses music throughout the world in various forms of media, including: television; print; gaming; and consumer products.
Content Production and Acquisition Produced content primarily consists of original films and episodic programs and network news and daytime/late night programming.
Licensed content includes acquired episodic programming rights, movies and specials.
Original content is also commissioned and produced by various third-party studios.
Costs to produce content are generally capitalized and allocated across Entertainment’s businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows.
The Company has a significant library of content spanning approximately 100 years of production history as well as acquired libraries.
In addition, the library includes approximately 130 series and 80 films that were produced for initial distribution on our DTC platforms.
The vast majority of our productions will initially be distributed on our Linear Networks and/or DTC platforms or theatrically.
We also license, acquire or produce local content for use in various countries/territories.
6 Competition and Seasonality Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer compete for viewers’ attention and audience share primarily with other television networks, independent television stations and other media, such as other DTC streaming services, social media and video games.
With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks, independent television stations, MVPDs, other DTC streaming services and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines, radio and billboards.
Our television stations primarily compete for audiences and advertisers in local market areas.
Linear Networks compete with other networks for carriage by MVPDs.
Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry, including subscriber levels, and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.
Content Sales/Licensing businesses compete with all forms of entertainment and a significant number of companies that produce and/or distribute film and episodic content, distribute products in the home entertainment market, provide pay TV/ VOD services, and produce music and live theater.
We also compete with other media and entertainment companies, independent production companies and video-on- demand services for creative and performing talent, story properties, show concepts, scripted and other programming, advertiser support, production facilities and exhibition outlets that are essential to the success of our Entertainment businesses.
Advertising revenues at Linear Networks and Direct-to-Consumer are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels.
Affiliate revenues vary with the subscriber levels of MVPDs.
SPORTS The Sports segment generally encompasses the Company’s sports-focused global television and DTC video streaming content production and distribution activities.
The lines of business within Sports include the following: • ESPN (generally owned 80% by the Company) ◦ Domestic: ▪ Seven ESPN-branded television channels ▪ ESPN on ABC (sports programmed on the ABC Network by ESPN) ▪ ESPN+ DTC service ◦ International: ESPN-branded channels outside of the U.S. • Star: Star-branded sports channels in India In February 2024, the Company, Fox Corporation and Warner Bros.
In early fall 2025, the Company plans to launch a new DTC offering, which will include live linear streams of the domestic ESPN-branded television channels and ESPN+.
• Selling, general and administrative costs, including marketing costs • Depreciation and amortization Domestic ESPN Branded television channels include seven 24-hour domestic television sports channels: • ESPN and ESPN2 - both dedicated to professional and college sports as well as sports news and original programming • ESPNU - dedicated to college sports • ESPNEWS - re-airs select ESPN studio shows and airs a variety of other programming • SEC Network - dedicated to Southeastern Conference college athletics • ACC Network - dedicated to Atlantic Coast Conference college athletics • ESPN Deportes - airs professional and college sports as well as studio shows in Spanish ESPN programs ESPN on ABC and recognizes the direct revenues and costs for this programming and receives a fee from the ABC Network, which is eliminated in consolidation.
The Company has various sports programming rights, which are used to produce content aired on ESPN television networks and ESPN+, including live events and sports news.
The number of subscribers (in millions) for the significant domestic branded channels are as follows: Subscribers ESPN(1) 66 ESPN2(1) 66 ESPNU(1) 47 ESPNEWS(2) 40 SEC Network(2) 45 ACC Network(2) 44 (1) Based on Nielsen Media Research estimates as of September 2024.
Estimates include traditional MVPD and the majority of digital OTT subscriber counts.
(2) Because Nielsen Media Research does not measure this channel, estimated subscribers are according to SNL Kagan as of December 2023.
ESPN+ is a domestic subscription-based DTC service offering thousands of live sporting events, on-demand sports content and other original programming.
The service is offered individually or in various bundles with Disney+ and Hulu to customers directly or through third-party distributors on mobile and internet connected devices.
ESPN+ revenue is derived from subscription fees, pay-per-view fees and, to a lesser extent, advertising.
As of September 2024, the estimated number of subscribers to ESPN branded channels outside the U.S., based on internal management reports, was approximately 55 million.
As of September 2024, the estimated number of subscribers to Star branded channels, based on internal management reports, was approximately 79 million.
Competition and Seasonality Sports competes for viewers’ attention and audience share primarily with other television networks, independent television stations and other media, such as other DTC streaming services, social media and video games.
With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks, independent television stations, MVPDs and other advertising media such as digital content, newspapers, magazines, radio and billboards.
The Sports television networks compete with other networks for carriage by MVPDs.
Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable, satellite and telecommunication distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.
We also compete with other media and entertainment companies and video-on-demand services for sports rights, creative and performing talent and other programming, advertiser support and production facilities that are essential to the success of our Sports businesses.
Affiliate revenues vary with the subscriber levels of MVPDs.
Important IP includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines and merchandise.
REGULATION Federal Communications Commission Regulation Television broadcasting is subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.
Each of the television stations we own must be licensed by the FCC.
The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations an entity can own in a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations an entity can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations.
Currently: ◦ FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market.
The Communications Act generally restricts foreign individuals or entities from collectively owning more than 25% of the voting or equity interest in a U.S. entity that controls a broadcast television license.
The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning “indecent” programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children’s programming.
In addition, broadcast stations are generally required to provide an average of three hours per week of programming that has as a “significant purpose” meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger.
• Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations.
With respect to MVPDs operating within a television station’s Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either “must carry” status, pursuant to which MVPDs generally must carry a local television station in the station’s market, or “retransmission consent” status, pursuant to which the MVPDs must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal.
The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations between programmers and distributors regarding the carriage of networks by cable and satellite distribution companies, and some cable and satellite distribution companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on their systems.
The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act, other legislation and specific FCC rules and policies.
While there is no comprehensive privacy law in the U.S. at the federal level, there are a number of sector-specific federal privacy laws applicable to our operations, such as the Video Privacy Protection Act, which restricts the ability to share personal information along with specific viewing information with third parties.
These laws, regulations and codes of conduct have an impact on the marketing of our products and services, the advertising on certain of our and third-party digital platforms that distribute our content and the design of certain of our new media offerings.
International Content Regulation The laws and regulations in many international jurisdictions in which we operate, including in the EU and Canada, require our linear networks or our DTC streaming services to include a certain amount of programming produced in specific jurisdictions or languages or require us to invest specified amounts of our revenues in local content or to acquire content produced by local independent production companies.
These laws and regulations increase our costs and impact our ability to operate our DTC streaming services and linear networks and distribute our films and programming in these markets.
While a number of different factors affect the demand for our products and services, actual or perceived economic conditions could contribute to lower attendance or spending at our parks and experiences businesses, prices that MVPDs pay for our cable programming, purchases of and prices for advertising on our DTC products and linear platforms, subscription levels for our cable programming or DTC platforms or licensing fees, while also continuing to increase the prices we pay for goods, services and labor.
Changes in technology, in consumer consumption patterns and in how entertainment products are created affect demand for our entertainment products, the revenue we can generate from these products and the cost of producing or distributing these products.
The media entertainment and technology businesses in which we participate increasingly depend on our ability to successfully adapt to new technologies including shifting patterns of content consumption and how entertainment products are generated.
New technologies affect the demand for our products, the manner in which our products are distributed to consumers, the ways we charge for and receive revenue for our entertainment products and the stability of those revenue streams, the sources and nature of competing content offerings, the time and manner in which consumers acquire and view some of our entertainment products and the options available to advertisers for reaching their desired audiences.
These developments have impacted the business model for certain traditional forms of distribution, as evidenced by the industry-wide decline in ratings for broadcast and cable television, the reduction in demand for home entertainment sales of theatrical content, the development of alternative distribution channels for broadcast and cable programming and declines in subscriber levels for traditional cable channels.
In order to respond to the impact of new technologies on our businesses, we regularly consider, and from time to time implement new initiatives and changes to our business models, including by developing, investing in and acquiring DTC products, reorganizing our media and entertainment businesses to advance our DTC strategies and developing new media offerings.
In addition, declines in certain traditional forms of distribution impacts the cost of content allocable to our DTC offerings, negatively impacting the profitability of our DTC offerings.
Since launch, our DTC streaming services experienced significant losses.
The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently produce compelling creative content, which may be distributed, among other ways, through DTC platforms, broadcast, cable, theaters and used in theme park attractions, hotels and other resort facilities and travel experiences and consumer products.
Such distribution must meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market and respond to competition from an expanding array of choices facilitated by technological developments in the delivery of content.
The profitability of one or more of our businesses could be adversely impacted by the significant contraction of distribution channels for our products and services, 19 including through third-party licensees or sellers of our licensed goods and services.
For example, in fiscal 2024, we announced entering into a definitive agreement to transfer Star India into a joint venture and related impairment charges; in fiscal 2023, we reorganized our media and entertainment operations, which had been previously reported in one segment, into two segments, Entertainment and Sports; in fiscal 2023 we announced that we would review content, primarily on our DTC services, for alignment with a strategic change in our approach to content curation, resulting in removal of certain content from our platforms and related impairment charges; in fiscal 2022, we announced plans to introduce an ad-supported Disney+ service, new pricing model and price increases and cost realignment; and we have announced exploration of a number of new types of businesses.
For example, notwithstanding our continuing efforts to rationalize costs, the cost of executing on our DTC strategy may continue to grow or be reduced more slowly than anticipated, which may impact our distribution strategy across businesses/distribution platforms, the types of content we distribute through various businesses/distribution platforms, the timing and sequencing of content windows and ultimately, the profitability of our DTC products and other businesses/ distribution platforms.
For example: • Our programming and production operations compete to obtain creative, performing, production and business talent, sports and other programming, story properties, advertiser support, production facilities and market share with traditional and new media platforms, including other video-on-demand services and sources of broadband delivered content, studio operators and television networks.
• Our television networks and stations and DTC offerings compete for the sale of advertising time with traditional and new media platforms, including other television and video-on-demand services and various forms of internet and mobile delivered content, which offer advertising delivery technologies that are more targeted than can be achieved through traditional means, as well as with newspapers, magazines, billboards and radio stations.
• Our television networks compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers.
• Our content sales/licensing operations compete for customers with all other forms of entertainment.
• Our consumer products business competes with other licensors and creators of IP.
• Our DTC streaming services compete for customers with an increasing number of competitors’ DTC offerings, all other forms of media and all other forms of entertainment, as well as for technology, creative, performing and business talent and for content.
Competition also reduces, or limits growth in, prices for our products and services, including advertising rates and subscription fees at our linear networks and DTC offerings, parks and resorts admissions and room rates and prices for consumer products from which we derive license revenues.
We enter into long-term contracts for both the acquisition and the distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for the acquisition of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, and contracts for the distribution of our programming to content distributors.
For example, the terms of recent renewals of carriage agreements have included fewer of our linear networks or the opportunity to offer multiple genre-specific bundle options of fewer than all our linear networks while providing for certain of our DTC streaming services to be made available to the distributor’s subscribers.
Moreover, our ability to renew these contracts on favorable terms is affected by a number of factors, such as consolidation in the market for program distribution and the entrance of new participants in the market for distribution of content on digital platforms.
Various risks may impact the success of our DTC streaming services.
The success of our DTC strategy and profitability of our DTC streaming services will be impacted by the success of the reorganization of our media and entertainment business and the strategic change in our approach to content curation initiated in fiscal 2023; our ability to drive subscriber additions and retention based on the attractiveness of our content, manage churn, achieve the desired financial impact of our DTC pricing, bundling and distribution determinations, the Disney+ ad supported service, monetization and cost containment strategy and the launch of the ESPN flagship DTC service; and the effects of our determinations with regard to distribution for our creative content across windows.
In addition, such economic conditions negatively impact the purchase of and price for advertising on our DTC streaming services.
We have experienced flat subscriber growth or net losses of subscribers in periods.
Our content does not always successfully attract and retain subscribers in the quantities that we expect.
These and other risks may impact the profitability and success of our DTC streaming services.
In addition, licensing revenues fluctuate with the timing and performance of our theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts.
• Revenues from content sales/licensing fluctuate due to the timing of content releases across various distribution markets.
• DTC revenues fluctuate based on: changes in the number of subscribers, mix of subscribers to different offerings and subscriber fees; viewership levels; and the demand for sports and film and television content.
The convergence of computing, communications and entertainment devices, increased broadband internet speed and penetration, increased availability and speed of mobile data transmission and increasingly sophisticated attempts to obtain unauthorized access to data systems have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our films, television productions and other creative works easier and faster and protection and the enforcement of IP rights more challenging.
The unauthorized distribution and access to entertainment content generally continues to be a significant challenge for IP rights holders.
Distribution innovations have increased opportunities to access content in unauthorized ways.
These developments require us to devote substantial resources to protecting our IP against unlicensed use and present the risk of increased losses of revenue as a result of unlicensed distribution of our content and other commercial misuses of our IP.
Some of these regulations include: • U.S. FCC regulation of our television and radio networks, our national programming networks and our owned television stations.
See Item 1 — Federal Communications Commission Regulation.
• Restrictions on the manner in which content is currently licensed and distributed, ownership restrictions or film or television content requirements, investment obligations or quotas.
Film and television library properties and television stations owned by the Company are described in Item 1 under the caption Entertainment.
Entertainment The Entertainment segment generates revenue from film, episodic and other content that is produced and distributed across three significant lines of business: • Linear Networks, which primarily generates revenue from affiliate fees and advertising • Direct-to-Consumer, which primarily generates revenue from subscription fees and advertising • Content Sales/Licensing, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of film and episodic content in the TV/VOD and home entertainment markets, distribution of films in the theatrical market, licensing of our music rights, sales of tickets to stage play performances and licensing of our IP for use in stage plays.
Revenues also include an intersegment allocation of revenues from the Experiences segment, which is meant to reflect royalties on consumer products merchandise licensing revenues generated on IP created by the Entertainment segment.
Programming and production costs include the following: • Amortization of capitalized production costs and licensed programming rights • Subscriber-based fees for programming the Hulu Live service, including fees paid by Hulu to the Sports segment and other Entertainment segment businesses for the right to air their linear networks on Hulu Live • Production costs related to live programming (primarily news) • Participations and residual expenses • Fees paid to the Sports segment to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Disney+ Amortization of capitalized production costs and licensed programming rights is generally allocated across Entertainment’s businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows.
36 Entertainment Revenue and operating results for the Entertainment segment are as follows: % Change ($ in millions) 2024 2023 Better (Worse) Revenues: Linear Networks $ 10,692 $ 11,701 (9)% Direct-to-Consumer 22,776 19,886 15 % Content Sales/Licensing and Other 7,718 9,048 (15)% $ 41,186 $ 40,635 1 % Segment operating income (loss): Linear Networks $ 3,452 $ 4,119 (16)% Direct-to-Consumer 143 (2,496) nm Content Sales/Licensing and Other 328 (179) nm $ 3,923 $ 1,444 >100 % Revenues The increase in Entertainment revenues was due to subscription revenue growth, partially offset by decreases in theatrical distribution, affiliate and TV/VOD distribution revenues.
Operating income The increase in Entertainment operating income was due to improved results at Direct-to-Consumer and, to a lesser extent, Content Sales/Licensing and Other, partially offset by a decrease at Linear Networks.
Hulu SVOD Only average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $12.17 to $12.35 due to increases in retail pricing, partially offset by a lower mix of subscribers with premium add-ons and a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product and promotional offerings.
Hulu Live TV + SVOD average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $90.52 to $95.12 due to higher retail pricing, partially offset by lower advertising, a lower mix of subscribers with premium add-ons and a higher mix of subscribers to promotional offerings.
Operating Expenses % Change ($ in millions) 2024 2023 Better (Worse) Programming and production costs Hulu $ (8,582) $ (8,265) (4)% Disney+ and other (5,499) (5,694) 3 % Total programming and production costs (14,081) (13,959) (1)% Other operating expense (3,667) (3,900) 6 % $ (17,748) $ (17,859) 1 % Higher programming and production costs at Hulu were due to an increase in subscriber-based fees for programming the Hulu Live TV service primarily attributable to rate increases.
40 Content Sales/Licensing and Other Operating results for Content Sales/Licensing and Other are as follows: % Change ($ in millions) 2024 2023 Better (Worse) Revenues TV/VOD distribution $ 2,255 $ 2,618 (14)% Theatrical distribution 2,266 3,174 (29)% Home entertainment distribution 753 931 (19)% Other 2,444 2,325 5 % Total revenues 7,718 9,048 (15)% Operating expenses (4,901) (6,280) 22 % Selling, general, administrative and other (2,108) (2,595) 19 % Depreciation and amortization (371) (347) (7)% Equity in the loss of investees (10) (5) (100)% Operating Income (Loss) $ 328 $ (179) nm Revenues - TV/VOD distribution The decrease in TV/VOD distribution revenue was due to lower sales of episodic and, to a lesser extent, film content.
Key metrics In addition to revenue, costs and operating income, management uses the following key metrics(1) to analyze trends and evaluate the overall performance of ESPN+, and we believe these metrics are useful to investors in analyzing the business: September 28, September 30, % Change 2024 2023 Better (Worse) Paid subscribers at fiscal year end (in millions) 25.6 26.0 (2)% Average Monthly Revenue per Paid Subscriber for the fiscal year $ 6.14 $ 5.49 12 % ESPN+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $5.49 to $6.14 due to increases in retail pricing and higher advertising revenue.
Programming costs include content rights licensed from third parties for use on the Company’s sports and general entertainment networks and DTC streaming services.
Although there can be no assurances these investments will be successful, we expect that they will lead to growth in subscription fees and advertising revenues that will more than offset impacts on affiliate fees and advertising revenue from declines in linear network subscribers and the related decrease in average viewership, which we expect will continue.
Upon a film’s release and determination of the theatrical performance, the Company’s estimates of revenues from succeeding windows and markets, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used on our DTC streaming services, are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends.
In fiscal 2024, we determined that our entertainment businesses, including DTC services, linear networks, and content sales/licensing, should be aggregated into a single reporting unit due to their interdependencies, including shared operating costs such as content, marketing, and technology, the similarity of products and services delivered, customers served and distribution channels used, and projected long term financial performance (e.g., operating margins).
DTC PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS, KEY DEFINITIONS AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Product Offerings In the U.S., Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu SVOD Only are each offered as a standalone service or as part of various multi- product offerings.
Depending on the market, our services can be purchased on our websites or through third-party platforms/apps or are available via wholesale arrangements.
Paid Subscribers Paid subscribers reflect subscribers for which we recognized subscription revenue.
Subscribers to multi-product offerings in the U.S. are counted as a paid subscriber for each of the Company's services included in the multi-product offering and subscribers to Hulu Live TV + SVOD are counted as one paid subscriber for each of the Hulu Live TV + SVOD, Disney+ and ESPN+ services.
In Latin America prior to July 2024, if a subscriber had either the standalone Disney+ or Star+ service or subscribed to Combo+, the subscriber was counted as one Disney+ paid subscriber.
Subscribers include those who receive an entitlement to a service through wholesale arrangements, including those for which the service is available to each subscriber of an existing content distribution tier.
When we aggregate the total number of paid subscribers across our DTC streaming services, we refer to them as paid subscriptions.
Average Monthly Revenue Per Paid Subscriber Hulu and ESPN+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber is calculated based on the average of the monthly average paid subscribers for each month in the period.
Revenue includes subscription fees, advertising (excluding revenue earned from selling advertising spots to other Company businesses), premium and feature add-on revenue and extra member add-on revenue but excludes Pay-Per-View revenue.
Advertising revenue generated by content on one DTC streaming service that is accessed through another DTC streaming service by subscribers to both streaming services is allocated between both streaming services.
The average revenue per paid subscriber is net of discounts on offerings that carry more than one service.
Hulu Live TV + SVOD revenue is allocated to the SVOD services based on the wholesale price of the Hulu SVOD Only, Disney+ and ESPN+ multi-product offering.
In general, wholesale arrangements have a lower average monthly revenue per paid subscriber than subscribers that we acquire directly or through third-party platforms.
55 Supplemental information about paid subscribers(1): September 28, September 30, (in millions) 2024 2023 Domestic (U.S. and Canada) standalone 59.6 55.5 Domestic (U.S. and Canada) multi-product(1) 27.1 22.6 Domestic (U.S. and Canada)(2) 86.7 78.1 International(3)(4) 66.7 66.1 Total(2) 153.4 144.2 (1) At September 28, 2024, there were 19.7 million and 7.4 million subscribers to multi-product offerings with two and three of the Company’s services, respectively.
At September 30, 2023, there were 20.3 million and 2.3 million subscribers to multi-product offerings with two and three of the Company’s services, respectively.
DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS Entertainment The Entertainment segment generally encompasses the Company’s non-sports focused global film and television content production and distribution activities.
The lines of business within Entertainment along with their significant business activities include the following: • Linear Networks ◦ Domestic: ABC Television Network (ABC Network); Disney, Freeform, FX and National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) branded television channels; and eight owned ABC television stations ◦ International: Disney, FX, National Geographic (owned 73% by the Company) and Star branded general entertainment television channels outside of the U.S. ◦ A 50% equity investment in A+E Television Networks (A+E), which operates cable channels including A&E, HISTORY and Lifetime • Direct-to-Consumer ◦ Disney+: a global direct-to-consumer (DTC) service that primarily offers general entertainment and family programming ◦ Disney+ Hotstar: a DTC service primarily in India that offers general entertainment, family and sports programming.
◦ Hulu: a U.S. DTC service that offers general entertainment and family programming and a digital over-the-top service that includes live linear streams of various cable and broadcast networks.
cable, satellite, telecommunications and digital over-the-top service providers) (MVPDs) for the right to deliver our programming to their customers.
• Theatrical distribution - Rentals from licensing our films to theaters • TV/VOD distribution - Licensing fees for the right to use our film and episodic content 76 • Home entertainment distribution - Electronic sales and rentals of film and episodic content through distributors and royalties from the licensing of physical distribution rights • Other revenue - Revenues from licensing our music, ticket sales from stage play performances, fees from licensing our IP for use in stage plays, sales of post-production services and the allocation of consumer products merchandise licensing revenues The significant expenses of Entertainment are as follows: • Operating expenses, consisting primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs.
Programming and production costs include the following: ◦ Amortization of capitalized production costs ◦ Amortization of the costs of licensed programming rights ◦ Subscriber-based fees for programming our Hulu Live service, including fees paid by Hulu to the Sports segment and other Entertainment segment businesses for the right to air their linear networks on Hulu Live ◦ Production costs related to live programming (primarily news) ◦ Participations and residual expenses ◦ Fees paid to the Sports segment to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Disney+ • Selling, general and administrative costs, including marketing costs • Depreciation and amortization Sports The Sports segment generally encompasses the Company’s sports-focused global television and DTC video streaming content production and distribution activities.
The lines of business within Sports include the following: • ESPN (generally owned 80% by the Company) ◦ Domestic: ▪ Seven ESPN branded television channels ▪ ESPN on ABC (sports programmed on the ABC Network by ESPN) ▪ ESPN+ DTC service ◦ International: ESPN-branded channels outside of the U.S. ◦ Star: Star-branded sports channels in India In February 2024, the Company, Fox Corporation and Warner Bros.
Because the content is functional IP, we had recognized substantially all of the consideration to be paid by the customer under the licenses as revenue in prior years when the content was delivered.
Affiliate agreements may also include a license to use the network programming for on demand viewing.
• TV/VOD distribution fixed license fees are recognized as revenue when the content is available for use by the licensee.
• Home entertainment sales in electronic formats are recognized as revenue when the content is available for use by the consumer.
Royalties from the licensing of physical home entertainment distribution rights are recognized as revenue as earned based on the contractual royalty rate applied to the licensee’s underlying product sales.
We reduce home entertainment physical distribution revenues for estimated future returns of merchandise and sales incentives based upon historical return experience, current economic trends and projections of consumer demand for our products.
The decrease in advertising expense for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was due to lower spend for our DTC streaming services.
Film and Television Content Costs The Company classifies its capitalized produced and acquired/licensed content costs as long-term assets (“Produced and licensed content costs” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet) and classifies advances for live programming rights made prior to the live event as short-term assets (“Content advances” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet).
subscription revenue for a DTC service or affiliate fees for a cable television network) The determination of the predominant monetization strategy is made at commencement of production on a consolidated basis and is based on the means by which we derive third-party revenues from use of the content.
We generally classify content that is initially intended for use on our DTC streaming services or Linear Networks as group assets.
We generally classify content initially intended for theatrical release or for sale to third-party licensees as individual assets.
content that was initially intended for license to a third party is instead used on an owned DTC service).
For film productions, Ultimate Revenues include revenues from all sources, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used on our DTC streaming services, that will be earned within ten years from the date of the initial release for theatrical films.
Licensed rights to film and television content and other programs for broadcast on our Linear Networks, domestic ESPN television network, International Sports Channels or DTC streaming services are expensed on an accelerated or straight-line basis over their useful life or over the number of times the program is expected to be aired, as appropriate.
Acquired film and television libraries include content that was initially released three years prior to its acquisition, except it excludes the prior seasons of episodic programming still in production at the date of its acquisition.
Content Production Incentives The Company receives tax incentives from U.S. (state and local) and foreign government agencies to encourage the production of film, episodic and streaming content.
Amounts deferred generally relate to theme park admissions and vacation packages, DTC subscriptions and advances related to merchandise and TV/VOD licenses.
At September 28, 2024, acquired film and television library content has remaining unamortized costs of $3.5 billion, which are generally being amortized straight-line over a weighted-average remaining period of approximately 14 years.
On November 30, 2022, a second private antitrust putative class action lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against the Company on behalf of a putative class of certain subscribers to DirecTV Stream (the “Fendelander Action”), making similar allegations.
Discovery, Inc., which will distribute certain of Defendants’ linear networks to consumers (the “Sports Streaming JV”), will harm competition in alleged markets for the licensing of networks that offer live sports content and for streaming live pay tv, (b) certain alleged practices by which the Company and Fox Corporation license their networks to vMVPDs as a bundle increase prices and reduce output for services offered by vMVPDs, and (c) certain alleged pricing provisions in Defendants’ carriage agreements with YouTube TV and Hulu + Live TV, as well as in Hulu + Live TV’s carriage agreements with non-Defendant programmers, increase prices for services offered by vMVPDs.
As a result, we evaluated the residual goodwill at our entertainment DTC services and linear networks reporting units for impairment.
The fiscal 2024 charges related to the removal of produced content from our entertainment linear networks and DTC services.