Risks Related to Our Business Model, Strategy, and Performance If our efforts to attract prospective users, retain existing users, and effectively monetize our products and services are not successful, our growth prospects and revenue will be adversely affected.
Our ability to grow our business and generate revenue depends on retaining, expanding, and effectively monetizing our total user base, including by increasing the number of subscribers to our premium service (“Premium Service”) and other subscription offerings (together with the Premium Service, “Subscription Offerings”) and the number of users of our ad-supported service (“Ad-Supported Service”, and together with the Subscription Offerings, the “Service”) and finding ways to monetize our products and services.
We must convince prospective users of the benefits of our Service and our existing users of the continuing value of our Service.
Our ability to attract new users, retain existing users, and engage active users depends in large part on our ability to continue to offer exceptional technologies and products, compelling content, competitive pricing, superior functionality, and an engaging user experience.
Some of our competitors, including Apple, Alphabet, and Amazon, have developed, and are continuing to develop, devices for which their audio streaming services are preloaded or may also be set as the default providers, which puts us at a significant competitive disadvantage.
As consumer tastes and preferences change on the internet and with mobile and other connected products, including cars, in-home, and wearable devices, we will need to enhance and improve our existing Service, introduce new services and features, and maintain our competitive position with additional technological advances and an adaptable platform.
From time to time, we have adjusted in the past, and may adjust in the future, our subscription pricing, plans, or our pricing model, which may not be well- received by consumers and could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain users or generate revenue.
If we fail to keep pace with technological advances or fail to offer compelling product offerings and state-of-the-art delivery platforms with competitive pricing that consumers perceive to be of value, our ability to grow or sustain the reach of our Service, attract and retain users, and monetize our products and services may be adversely affected.
In order to increase our advertising revenue, we seek to increase the time that our users spend on our Service and expand our opportunities to deliver advertising to users, such as through podcasts (including off-platform) and other opportunities relating to content promotion to users.
The more content users stream, the more advertising inventory we generally have to sell.
Further, growth in our user base increases the size and scope of user pools targeted by advertisers, which improves our ability to deliver relevant advertising to those users in a manner that achieves our advertising customers’ return on investment goals and that ultimately allows us to better demonstrate the effectiveness of our advertising solutions and justifies a pricing structure that is advantageous for us.
If we fail to grow our user base, the amount of content streamed, and the time that our users spend on our Service, we may be unable to grow our advertising revenue.
Moreover, given that subscribers to our Premium Service are sourced primarily from converting users of our Ad-Supported Service (“Ad- Supported Users”), any failure to grow our Ad-Supported User base or convert them to our Premium Service may negatively impact our revenue.
We face and will continue to face significant competition for users, their time, and advertisers.
We face robust and rapidly evolving competition in all aspects of our business, including from companies that allow users to share and discover content and/or that enable advertisers to use content platforms to reach customers, such as Apple, Alphabet, Amazon, Meta, and ByteDance.
These competitive risks are heightened because some of our competitors have more extensive hardware, software, and service offerings, longer histories, larger user bases, increased brand recognition, 5 Table of Contents more experience in the markets in which we compete, and greater overall resources than we do.
These advantages enable them to devote more financial resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing, which in turn enables them to offer competitive services at little or no profit or even at a loss.
For example, prominent, well-funded competitors like Apple, Alphabet, and Amazon have a competitive advantage because they can leverage the substantially broader product offerings in their ecosystem to gain subscribers and to monetize users.
Relatedly, we compete for users based on our presence and visibility as compared with other businesses and platforms that deliver content through the internet and connected devices.
We face significant competition for users from companies promoting their own digital content online or through application stores, including large, well-funded, and seasoned participants in the digital media market.
Device application stores often offer users the ability to browse applications by various criteria, such as the number of downloads in a given time period, the length of time since an application was released or updated, or the category in which the application is placed.
The websites and applications of our competitors may rank higher than our website and our Spotify application in search engines or application stores, and/or our application may be difficult to locate in device application stores, which could draw potential users away from our Service and toward those of our competitors.
In addition, some of these competitors, including Apple, Alphabet, and Amazon, have developed, and are continuing to develop, devices for which their streaming service is preloaded and/or able to be used out-of-the-box without the need to log in, creating a visibility and access advantage.
If we are unable to compete successfully for users against other digital media providers by maintaining and increasing our presence, ease of use, and visibility, the size of our user base and the amount of content streamed on our Service may decline or may increase less than expected, and our subscription and advertising sales may suffer.
Our current and future competitors have introduced, and may continue to introduce, new ways of consuming or engaging with content that cause our users, especially the younger demographic, to switch to another product or service, which would negatively affect our user retention, growth, and engagement.
As the market for on-demand audio on the internet and mobile and connected devices increases, new competitors, business models, and solutions are likely to emerge.
Companies with a combination of technical expertise, brand recognition, financial resources, and digital media experience may respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in market requirements better than we can, undertake more far-reaching and successful product development efforts or marketing campaigns, or adopt more aggressive pricing policies.
As we introduce new products, services, or technologies or as our products, services, or technologies evolve, we may become subject to additional competition.
Additionally, we compete for a share of advertisers’ overall marketing budgets with other content providers on a variety of factors, including perceived return on investment, effectiveness and relevance of our advertising products and content offering, pricing structure, and ability to deliver large volumes or precise types of advertisements to targeted user demographic pools.
Large internet companies with strong brand recognition, such as Alphabet, Meta, and Amazon, have significant numbers of sales personnel, substantial advertising inventory, proprietary advertising technology solutions, and traffic that provide a significant competitive advantage and have a significant impact on pricing for reaching these user bases.
They could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our users, effectively monetize the content streamed, efficiently develop and improve our operational and financial controls, and recruit, train, and retain highly skilled personnel.
We have experienced rapid growth rates in both the number of active users of our Service and revenue over the last few years.
As we grow larger and increase our user base and usage, we expect it will become increasingly difficult to maintain the rate of growth we currently experience.
Our new products or services may not be successful and our emphasis on long-term user engagement could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.
Our industry is subject to rapid and frequent changes in technology, evolving consumer needs, and the frequent introduction by our competitors of new and enhanced offerings.
We must constantly assess the playing field and determine whether we need to improve or re-allocate resources among our existing products and services or create new ones.
For example, in 2024, we continued to expand the availability of audiobooks on our Premium Service, making a specified monthly allocation of access available for eligible subscribers to the Premium Service in additional markets.
We also announced, in select markets, the Spotify Partner Program, a new monetization program that will offer creators audience-driven payouts for eligible video streaming of their content on our platform beginning in 2025.
No assurance can be given that consumer demand for such new products or services will exist or be sustained at the levels that we anticipate, or that any of these offerings will gain sufficient traction or market acceptance to generate sufficient revenue to offset any new expenses or liabilities associated with them.
Our culture also focuses on long-term user engagement, which may not necessarily maximize short-term operating results or financial condition.
We frequently make decisions that may reduce our short-term revenue or profitability if we 7 Table of Contents believe that the decisions benefit the aggregate user experience and will thereby improve our financial performance over the long term.
These decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and engagement, our relationships with advertisers and partners, as well as our business, operating results, and financial condition could be seriously harmed.
If we fail to accurately predict, recommend, and play content that our users enjoy, we may fail to retain existing users and attract new users in sufficient numbers to meet investor expectations for growth or to operate our business profitably.
We believe that a key differentiating factor between Spotify and other audio content providers is our ability to predict music, podcasts, audiobooks, or other content that our users will enjoy.
In addition, our ability to offer users content that they have not previously heard and impart a sense of discovery depends on our ability to acquire and appropriately categorize additional content that will appeal to our users’ diverse and changing tastes.
Applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to data security and privacy, and operating systems’ practices and policies may impact our ability to collect user information and provide personalized content.
While we have a large catalog of music, podcasts, and audiobooks available to stream, we must continuously identify and analyze additional content that our users will enjoy and we may not effectively do so.
Our ability to predict and select content that our users enjoy is critical to the perceived value of our Service among our users and our failure to make accurate predictions or any actual or perceived decline in the quality of our content recommendations could materially adversely affect our ability to adequately attract and retain users and grow our business.
We have incurred significant costs to license content and continue to pay royalties or other consideration to record labels, publishers, and other copyright owners for such content.
In the future, our revenue growth rate may decline because of a variety of factors, including market saturation, the maturation of our business, or increased competition.
Additionally, we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: • securing top-quality content from leading record labels, distributors, aggregators, and other content owners or providers, as well as any rights to works contained in that content; • our technology infrastructure, including development tools, scalability, availability, performance, security, and disaster recovery measures; • research and development, including investments in our research and development and the development of new features, forms of content, and other products or services; • sales and marketing, including costs related to our field sales organization and advertising globally; • international operations in an effort to maintain and increase our user base, engagement, and sales; and • general administration, including legal and accounting expenses.
We may not succeed in capturing a greater share of our advertisers’ core marketing budgets, particularly if we are unable to achieve the scale, reach, frequency, products, and market penetration necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of our advertising solutions, or if our advertising model proves ineffective or not competitive when compared to other alternatives and platforms through which advertisers choose to invest their budgets.
For example, we need to show that our Service has substantial reach and engagement by relevant demographic audiences.
Our users may also exercise their option not to share certain personal data for a number of reasons, and current and future data privacy laws and regulations may further impede our ability to stream personalized content or offer targeted advertising and promotional opportunities to users on the Service.
The impact of these changes on the overall mobile advertising ecosystem, our business, and the developers, partners, and advertisers in the ecosystem are evolving and their ultimate impact remains uncertain.
9 Table of Contents Evolving industry trends in digital advertising may pose challenges for our ability to forecast or optimize our advertising inventory, which may adversely impact our advertising revenue.
Certain advertisers will measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns based on our ability to serve their ads to audiences that match their demographic data benchmarks, and our ability to meet the requirements of these third-party measurement providers may be impacted when we do not have accurate or complete user data.
As these trends in the industry continue to evolve, our advertising revenue may be adversely affected by the availability, accuracy, and utility of analytics and measurement technologies as well as our ability to successfully implement and operationalize such technologies and standards.
For example, we leverage streaming ad insertion technology to improve our targeting and measurement capabilities for podcast advertising that rely on our streaming capabilities instead of using downloads as a proxy.
However, the impact of the shift in measurement from downloads to real impressions on our advertising revenue remains uncertain, as is its acceptance by our advertising partners or our ability to scale this technology successfully.
Further, the digital advertising industry increasingly uses data-driven technologies and advertising products, such as automated buying.
These advertising products and programmatic technologies may not integrate with our Service and if we are unable to deploy effective solutions to monetize the device usage by our user base, our ability to attract advertising spend, and ultimately our advertising revenue, may be adversely affected.
The evolution of privacy laws, including the GDPR, CCPA, and the ePrivacy Directive (each as defined below), and relevant case law and regulatory guidance, may also impact the way we generate revenue from advertising.
Failure to successfully monetize and generate revenues from podcasts, audiobooks, and other non-music content could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.
There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from podcasts, audiobooks, or other non-music content to offset the costs of creating or acquiring this content.
Our expanded audiobook or video content offerings may involve additional risks and challenges, including increased capital requirements, new competitors, and the need to develop new strategic relationships.
Failure to successfully monetize and generate revenues from non-music content, or to effectively manage the numerous risks and challenges associated with delivering such content, including failure to obtain or retain rights to podcasts, audiobooks, or other non-music content on acceptable terms, or at all, could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.
We provide various services and products that enable creators or users to make content available on our Service.
For example, creators or users can record and distribute podcasts using our podcast hosting services, such as Spotify for Creators, and can upload cover art and profile images.
Given the large volume of content that various third parties, including record labels, distributors, aggregators, podcasters, audiobook publishers, authors, live-audio creators, and our users, make available on our platform, it is challenging for us to accurately verify the legitimacy of such content and review or moderate such content to ensure that it is otherwise in compliance with our policies.
We have acquired and invested in, and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in, other companies or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our products and services, enhance our technical capabilities or content offerings, or otherwise offer growth opportunities.
For example, the majority of our long-term investments relates to Tencent Music Entertainment (“TME”).
To secure the rights to stream content, we enter into license agreements to obtain licenses from rights holders, such as record labels, aggregators, artists, music publishers, performing rights organizations, collecting societies, podcasters, podcast networks, audiobook publishers, authors, and other audio/video content creators, copyright owners or their agents, or obtain licenses via government-provided statutory or compulsory licenses, and pay royalties or other consideration to such parties or their agents around the world.
We cannot guarantee that our efforts to obtain all necessary licenses to stream content will be successful, or that the licenses available to us now will continue to be available in the future at rates and on terms that are favorable or commercially reasonable or at all.
For example, if we fail to obtain licenses to stream sound recordings from major record labels; if the rates we pay for mechanical licenses that are set by the Copyright Royalty Board increase our royalty costs; if we are unable to comply with the requirements to maintain the blanket compulsory mechanical license in the U.S.; if we are unable to obtain blanket licenses for public performance rights on reasonable terms; if our licenses with collecting societies and our direct licenses with music publishers do not provide full coverage for all of the musical compositions we make available to our users; for podcasts, audiobooks, and other non-music content, if rights holders or content providers are unwilling to provide content on reasonable terms or do not comply with the terms and conditions of our license agreements as well as our Terms and Conditions of Use, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed.
For example, in May 2024, the Mechanical Licensing Collective (“MLC”), an entity designated to administer a blanket compulsory license available under U.S. law, filed a lawsuit against Spotify USA Inc., alleging that Spotify USA Inc. improperly reported and underpaid royalties for its Premium Service as a bundle that includes a monthly allocation of audiobook access.
Business Overview—Licensing Agreements.” We have no control over third-party providers of the content we stream.
The concentration of control of content by our major providers means that even one entity, or a small number of entities working together, may unilaterally affect our access to music and other content.
The music industry has a high level of concentration, which means that one or a small number of entities may, on their own, take actions that adversely affect our business.
For example, with respect to sound recordings, the music licensed to us under our agreements with Universal Music Group, Sony Music Entertainment, Warner Music Group, and Music and Entertainment Rights Licensing Independent Network (“Merlin”), makes up the majority of music consumed on our Service.
For the year ended December 31, 2024, this content accounted for approximately 71% of streams of audio content delivered by record labels.
Our business may be adversely affected if our access to music is limited or delayed because of deterioration in our relationships with one or more of these rights holders or if they choose not to license to us for any other reason.
As a result, our ability to continue to license rights to sound recordings is subject to convincing a broad range of stakeholders of the value and quality of our Service.
Under our license agreements and relevant statutes, we must pay all required royalties to record labels, music publishers, and other copyright owners in order to stream content.
The determination of the amount and timing of such payments is complex and subject to a number of variables, including the type of content streamed, the country in which it is streamed, the product tier such content is streamed on, revenue generated per product tier, the identity of the license holder to whom royalties are owed, the current size of our user base, our current ratio of Ad-Supported Users to applicable Premium Subscribers (as defined below), the applicability of any most favored nations provisions, and any applicable advertising fees and discounts, among other variables.
Such financial commitments related to our content acquisition costs are not always tied to our revenue and/or user growth forecasts (e.g., number of users, active users, applicable Premium Subscribers (as defined below)) or the number of sound recordings and musical compositions, podcasts, or audiobooks used on our Service.
Some of our content costs are related to the amount of content consumed by our users.
Accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability and operating leverage on our Service in part depends on our ability to increase our revenue through increased subscription and advertising sales on terms that maintain an adequate gross margin.
To the extent our subscription revenue growth or advertising sales do not meet our expectations, our business, operating results, and financial condition could also be adversely affected as a result of such financial commitments.
We rely on estimates of the market share of streaming content owned by each content provider, projected consumption by our users, as well as our own user growth and, in certain situations, projected advertising revenue, to forecast whether such financial commitments could be recouped against our actual content acquisition costs incurred over the duration of the license agreement.
Difficulties in obtaining accurate and comprehensive information necessary to identify the musical compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service and the ownership thereof may impact our ability to perform our obligations under our licenses, affect the size of our catalog, impact our ability to control content acquisition costs, and lead to potential copyright infringement claims.
These challenges, and others concerning the licensing of musical compositions embodied in sound recordings on our Service, may subject us to significant liability for copyright infringement, breach of contract, or other claims.
Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal or Arbitration Proceedings.” Our Service is dependent upon our ability to license intellectual property rights to audio content, including sound recordings, any musical compositions embodied therein, podcasts, and audiobooks, as well as visual and related content, such as music videos, clips, album cover art, artist images, and any other media assets that content providers can add or provide with their content.
Various laws and regulations govern the copyright and other intellectual property rights associated with audio and visual content, including sound recordings, musical compositions, and video content streaming.
In addition, music, internet, technology, and media companies are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of intellectual property rights.
Risks Related to Our Operations Streaming depends on effectively working with operating systems, online platforms, hardware, networks, regulations, and standards we do not control.
We rely on a variety of operating systems, online platforms, hardware, and networks to reach our users.
Online platforms also may unilaterally impose certain requirements that negatively affect our ability to convert users to the Premium Service, such as conditions that limit our freedom to communicate promotions and offers to our users.
16 Table of Contents Moreover, our Service requires high-bandwidth data capabilities.
If the costs of data usage increase or access to data networks is limited, our business may be seriously harmed.
Additionally, to deliver high-quality audio, video, and other content over networks, our Service must work well with a range of technologies, systems, networks, regulations, and standards that we do not control.
In addition, the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity, or use of the internet, including laws governing internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our Service and increase our cost of doing business.
If the FCC’s May 2024 rules are vacated in the pending appeal and state laws fail to provide comparable protections, or if the EU modifies its own open internet rules, internet service providers may be able to limit our users’ ability to access our Service or make it a less attractive alternative to our competitors’ applications, and our business, operating results, and financial condition would be seriously harmed.
Our products and services are developed, delivered, and maintained through complex technology and third-party software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) solutions that include various software and hardware.
Interruptions, delays, or discontinuations in service arising from our own systems or from third parties could harm our business.
We have designed our software and computer systems to utilize data processing, storage capabilities, and other services provided by GCP, currently rely on GCP for the vast majority of our primary data storage (including personal data of users and audio data licensed from rights holders) and computing, and any transition of our GCP operations to another cloud provider would incur significant time and expense.
We have experienced, and may in the future experience, periodic service interruptions and delays involving our own systems and those of third parties that we work with.
Certain jurisdictions have implemented or are contemplating implementing laws that may negatively impact our Subscription Offerings’ recurring billing structure or our free or discounted trial incentives.
We use AI, including generative AI, and machine learning in our products and services, including in consumer-facing features such as AI DJ.
We face significant competition from other companies that are developing their own AI products and technologies, some of which also compete with us in other areas, including streaming audio.
As we collect and utilize personal data about our users as they interact with our products and services, we are subject to new and existing laws and regulations that govern our use of user data.
New laws in jurisdictions where we operate, amendments to, or reinterpretations of existing laws, regulatory frameworks, rules of self-regulatory bodies, industry standards, and contractual obligations, as well as changes in our users’ expectations and demands regarding privacy and cybersecurity, including restrictions on our ability to collect, access and harness user data, or to use or disclose user data, have and may continue to require that we expend considerable resources to meet these requirements and may limit our ability to stream personalized content to our users, offer advertising and promotional opportunities to users on the Service, and to operate and expand internationally.
Maintaining, protecting, and enhancing the “Spotify” brand is critical to expanding our base of users and advertisers, as well as continuing to attract creators, and will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable, trustworthy, and innovative products and services, which we may not do successfully.
We may introduce new products, services, features, content, or terms of service that our users, creators, licensors, advertisers, or partners do not like, which may negatively affect our brand.
Additionally, the actions of our developers, advertisers, and content partners may affect our brand if users do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with Spotify or that make use of Spotify content or brand features.
If we are unable to maintain the growth of our user base, we may be required to expend greater resources than we currently spend on advertising, marketing, and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of and sentiment about our brand, which would adversely affect our operating results and may not be effective.
An increase in those fees could require us to either increase the prices we charge for our Subscription Offerings, which could cause us to lose subscribers and subscription revenue, or suffer an increase in our costs without a corresponding increase in the price we charge for our Subscription Offerings, either of which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.
In addition, if our billing software fails to work properly and, as a result, we do not automatically charge our subscribers’ payment method on a timely basis or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
Certain payment card associations and jurisdictions have proposed or promulgated additional requirements for trial offers for subscription services and subscription services with recurring billing, which may hinder our ability to attract or retain Premium Subscribers.
We also accept payments through various payment solution providers, such as telco integrated billings, in-app purchases made within the Spotify app downloaded from the Google Play Store, and prepaid code vendors.
Qualified individuals are in high demand, particularly in the digital media industry, and we may incur significant costs to attract them.
In particular, economic conditions have and may continue to negatively impact advertising expenditures.
As overall economic conditions reduce spending on discretionary activities, our ability to retain current and obtain new Premium Subscribers could be hindered, which could reduce our subscription revenue and negatively impact our business.
We regularly review key metrics related to the operation of our business, including, but not limited to, our monthly active users (“MAUs”), Ad- Supported MAUs (as defined below), Premium average revenue per user (“ARPU”), and Premium Subscribers, to evaluate growth trends, measure our performance, and make strategic decisions.
While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our user base for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring how our Service is used across large populations globally.
For example, we believe that while there are individuals who have multiple Spotify accounts, which we treat as multiple users for purposes of calculating our active users, there are also Spotify accounts that are used by more than one person.
In addition, we are continually seeking to improve our estimates of our user base, and such estimates may change due to improvements or changes in our methodology, including improvements in our ability to identify and/or address previously undetected undesirable user behaviors.
We have in the past been, and continue to be, impacted by attempts by third parties to artificially manipulate stream counts.
Such attempts may, for example, be designed to generate revenue for content providers and/or rights holders or to influence placement of content on Spotify-created playlists or industry charts.
For example, we have detected botnet operators creating non-bona fide user accounts or hackers using passwords compromised as a result of a data breach on a non-Spotify service to access legitimate user accounts and streaming specific content repeatedly, thereby generating royalties each time the content is streamed or increasing its visibility on our or third-party charts.
We use a combination of algorithms and manual review by employees to detect artificial streams and aim to remove such artificial streams or non-bona fide user accounts created for the above purposes and filter them out from our metrics on an ongoing basis, as well as to require users to reset passwords that we suspect have been compromised.
However, we may not be successful in detecting, removing, and addressing all artificial streams and any related user accounts.
If we fail to successfully detect, remove, and address artificial streams and associated user accounts, it may result in the manipulation of our data, including the key performance indicators, which underlie, among other things, our contractual obligations with rights holders and advertisers (which could expose us to the risk of litigation), as well as harm our relationships with rights holders and advertisers.
In addition, once we detect and mitigate artificial streams and associated user accounts, this may result in the removal of certain user accounts and/or a reduction in account activity, which may affect key performance indicators and undermine investor confidence in the integrity of our key performance indicators.
For example, we have detected third parties seeking to provide mobile device users a means to suppress advertisements without payment and gain access to features only available to the Ad-Supported Service on tablets and desktop computers.
Additionally, Ad-Supported Users using unauthorized versions of our application may be less likely to convert to Premium Subscribers.
It is not possible to foresee what impact, if any, such changes may have on Spotify.
Business Overview We are the world’s most popular audio streaming subscription service with a community of 675 million MAUs and 263 million Premium Subscribers across 184 countries and territories as of December 31, 2024.
Spotify has transformed the way people access and enjoy music, podcasts, and audiobooks.
Today, millions of people around the world have access to over 100 million music tracks and 6.5 million podcast titles through Spotify whenever and wherever they want.
In select markets, over 350,000 audiobooks are available for à la carte purchase and eligible Premium Subscribers receive a specified number of hours of access a month to a subscriber catalog containing more than 200,000 audiobooks.
Since our founding in 2006, we have transformed the music industry by allowing users to move from a “transaction-based” experience of buying and owning music to an “access-based” model, which allows users to stream music on demand.
Since 2019, we expanded our podcast offerings and helped advance the growth of the podcast industry by making significant investments in content, giving podcasters scale via our large user base established in music, and enhancing the podcast discovery experience.
Since 2022, we further expanded our offerings to help drive audiobook adoption among our users and grow the earnings potential of authors, including by bringing elements of our revolutionary music access model to the audiobooks landscape.
We are actively investing in other forms of content to complement the music library available through our platform, including video.
If discovery drives customer satisfaction, and customer satisfaction drives engagement, and engagement drives discovery, we believe Spotify wins and so do our users.
Our brand reflects culture—and occasionally creates 32 Table of Contents it—by turning vast and intriguing listening data into compelling stories that remind people of the role music, podcasts, and other content play in their lives and encourage new fans to join Spotify each week.
We continue to build a two-sided marketplace for users and creators, which leverages our platform relationships, data analytics, and software.
We have been instrumental in reshaping the way in which our users enjoy, discover, and share audio content.
Spotify is uniquely positioned to offer creators and fans access to one another, and to provide creators with analytics and tools to help them better understand their fans, to support themselves, and to effectively monetize their creative work.
Our Business Model We offer both Premium and Ad-Supported Services to our customers.
Our Premium and Ad-Supported Services live independently, but thrive together.
Our Ad-Supported Service serves as a funnel, driving a significant portion of our total gross added Premium Subscribers.
We believe our Ad-Supported Service is a strong and viable stand-alone product with considerable long-term opportunity for growth in Ad-Supported Users and revenue.
Our Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers spend significant time engaging with our Service.
Combined, our audience streamed 190 billion hours of content for the year ended December 31, 2024, an increase of 15% compared to the year ended December 31, 2023.
In select markets, the Premium Service provides eligible users with limited online and offline streaming access to our catalog of audiobooks.
In addition to accessing our catalog on computers, tablets, and mobile devices, users can connect through speakers, receivers, televisions, cars, game consoles, and smart devices.
As part of our Subscription Offerings, we also offer a Basic plan to eligible users in select markets that provides certain benefits of the Premium Service without the monthly audiobook listening time and an Audiobook Access Tier in the U.S. that provides specified hours of audiobook access a month without all of the benefits of the Premium Service.
We generate revenue for our Premium segment through the sale of subscriptions to the Subscription Offerings.
The Subscription Offerings are primarily sold directly to end users.
The Premium Service is also sold through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from their end customers.
Premium partner subscription revenue is based on a per-subscriber rate in a negotiated partner agreement.
We also bundle the Premium Service with other services.
We offer a variety of subscription pricing plans for our Premium Service and Basic plan, including our Standard Plan, Family Plan, Duo Plan, and Student Plan, among others, to appeal to users with different lifestyles and across various demographics and age groups.
Our pricing varies by plan and is adapted to each local market to align with consumer purchasing power, general cost levels, and willingness to pay for an audio service.
In addition, as we have entered into new markets where recurring subscription services are less common, we have expanded our subscription products to include prepaid options and durations other than monthly (both longer and shorter durations), as well as expanded payment options.
Revenue from our Premium segment is a function of the price of our Subscription Offerings and the number of subscribers who subscribe to our Subscription Offerings.
As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had 263 million and 236 million Premium Subscribers, respectively.
New Premium Subscribers are primarily sourced from the conversion of our Ad-Supported Users.
Through both our online platform and external marketing efforts, we engage our Ad- Supported Users by 33 Table of Contents highlighting key features that encourage conversion to our subscription offerings.
Additionally, new subscriber growth is also driven by the success of converting users from our trial programs to full-time Premium Subscribers.
Ad-Supported Service Our Ad-Supported Service has no subscription fees and generally provides Ad-Supported Users with limited on-demand online access to our catalog of music and unlimited online access to our catalog of podcasts on their computers, tablets, mobile devices, and other smart devices.
Our Ad-Supported Service serves as both a Premium Subscriber acquisition channel and a robust option for users who are unable or unwilling to pay a monthly subscription fee but still want to enjoy access to a wide variety of high-quality audio content.
We generate revenue for our Ad-Supported segment primarily from the sale of display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions.
Revenue from our Ad-Supported segment is dependent primarily on the number and hours of engagement of our Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners and our ability to provide innovative advertising products that are relevant to those users and enhance returns for our advertising partners.
Our advertising strategy centers on the belief that advertising products that are based in music and podcasts and are relevant to Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners can enhance user experiences and provide even greater returns for advertisers.
We have historically introduced, and continue to introduce, new advertising products across both music and podcast content.
The Spotify Audience Network (“SPAN”) is an audio advertising marketplace that connects advertisers to listeners across our owned and exclusive podcasts, podcasts from enterprise publishers via Megaphone, and podcasts from emerging creators via Spotify for Creators.
Through SPAN, we provide hosting and ad-insertion capabilities for audio publishers that allow us to sell targeted advertising to brand partners that enables them to reach listeners both on and off our platform.
Below is a summary of certain provisions of our license agreements relating to sound recordings and the musical compositions embodied therein (i.e., the musical notes and the lyrics), as well as podcasts, audiobooks, and other non-music content.
They also often include marketing commitments, advertising inventory, financial and data reporting obligations, and numerous prescriptions about the manner in which the Spotify service is operated.
Rights to sound recordings granted pursuant to these agreements accounted for approximately 71% of streams of audio content delivered by record labels for the year ended December 31, 2024.
Risk Factors—Risks Related to Securing the Rights to the Content We Stream—Financial commitments required under certain of our license agreements may limit our operating flexibility and may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.” We also have direct license agreements with hundreds of independent labels, as well as companies known as “aggregators” (for example, CDBaby, Distrokid, and TuneCore).
We also offer marketplace programs, some of which may result in a discounted recording royalty rate.
These agreements have music usage reporting obligations on Spotify and typically have one to four-year terms, and are limited to the territory of the United States and its territories and possessions.
Podcast License Agreements with Podcasters and Podcast Networks With respect to podcasts in both audio-only and video formats that we license from others, we either negotiate licenses directly with individuals or entities or obtain rights through our owned and operated services, such as Spotify for Creators, that enable creators to distribute content to our Service after agreeing to comply with the applicable terms and conditions.
With respect to podcasts in both audio-only and video formats that we produce or commission, we typically enter into multi-year commitments.
Audiobook License Agreements with Audiobook Publishers and Authors With respect to audiobooks for which we obtain distribution rights directly from rights holders, we either negotiate licenses with audiobook publishers or authors or obtain rights through our owned and operated service, Findaway Voices by Spotify, that enables creators to distribute content to our Service after agreeing to comply with the applicable terms and conditions.
These licenses are generally consumption-based, with royalties paid on a quarterly or monthly basis.
In addition, we obtain the rights to produce and distribute audiobooks from book publishers and authors.
Risk Factors—Risks Related to Securing the Rights to the Content We Stream—We depend upon third-party licenses for most of the content we stream and an adverse change to, loss of, or claim that we do not hold any necessary licenses may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.” Intellectual Property The success of our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, including the intellectual property rights underlying our Service.
Trend Information” for a description of the seasonality of our business.
Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business Model, Strategy, and Performance—We face and will continue to face significant competition for users, their time, and advertisers.” In addition to competing directly with other providers of music, podcasts, and audiobooks listed above, we also compete for customers’ time and attention with a broad array of other media platforms.
Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.” and “— Various existing, new, and changing laws and regulations as well as self-regulation and public concern related to privacy and data security pose the threat of lawsuits, regulatory fines, other liability and reputational harm, require us to expend significant resources, and may harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.” Human Capital At Spotify, we know that when our employees grow, Spotify grows.
We host onboarding events and programs for new employees to learn about Spotify and how to grow their careers at Spotify.
Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Canada Spotify Australia Pty Ltd Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Australia Spotify Brasil Serviços De Música LTDA Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Brazil Spotify Japan K.K.
Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Japan Spotify India LLP Sales, distribution, and marketing 100 % India S Servicios de Música México, S.A. de C.V.
Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Singapore Spotify Italy S.r.l.
With a presence in 184 countries and territories, our platform includes 675 million MAUs and 263 million Premium Subscribers as of December 31, 2024.
Our Premium Subscribers grew 11% year-over-year as of December 31, 2024 to 263 million.
Audiobooks The Company continued to expand the availability of audiobooks on our Premium Service.
Currently, audiobooks are available for eligible Premium Subscribers in 10 markets.
On March 1, 2024, the Company also launched an Audiobook Access Tier in the U.S., offering Ad-Supported Users specified hours of audiobook access a month.
During the second quarter of 2024, the Company also launched a Basic plan to eligible users in select markets, offering certain benefits of the Premium Service without the monthly audiobook listening time.
How We Generate Revenue We operate and manage our business in two reportable segments—Premium and Ad-Supported.
In select markets, the Premium Service provides eligible users with limited online and offline streaming access to our catalog of audiobooks.
In addition to accessing our catalog on computers, tablets, and mobile devices, users can 39 Table of Contents connect through speakers, receivers, televisions, cars, game consoles, and smart devices.
As part of our Subscription Offerings, we also offer a Basic plan to eligible users in select markets that provides certain benefits of the Premium Service without the monthly audiobook listening time and an Audiobook Access Tier in the U.S. that provides specified hours of audiobook access a month without all of the benefits of the Premium Service.
We generate revenue for our Premium segment through the sale of subscriptions to the Subscription Offerings.
The Subscription Offerings are primarily sold directly to end users.
The Premium Service is also sold through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from their end customers.
Premium partner subscription revenue is based on a per-subscriber rate in a negotiated partner agreement.
We also bundle the Premium Service with other services.
We offer a variety of subscription pricing plans for our Premium Service and Basic plan, including our Standard Plan, Family Plan, Duo Plan, and Student Plan, among others, to appeal to users with different lifestyles and across various demographics and age groups.
Our pricing varies by plan and is adapted to each local market to align with consumer purchasing power, general cost levels, and willingness to pay for an audio service.
In addition, as we have entered into new markets where recurring subscription services are less common, we have expanded our subscription products to include prepaid options and durations other than monthly (both longer and shorter durations), as well as expanded payment options.
Revenue from our Premium segment is a function of the price of our Subscription Offerings and the number of subscribers who subscribe to our Subscription Offerings.
As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had 263 million and 236 million Premium Subscribers, respectively.
New Premium Subscribers are primarily sourced from the conversion of our Ad-Supported Users.
Through both our online platform and external marketing efforts, we engage our Ad- Supported Users by highlighting key features that encourage conversion to our subscription offerings.
Additionally, new subscriber growth is also driven by the success of converting users from our trial programs to full-time Premium Subscribers.
The rate of net growth in Premium Subscribers is also affected by our ability to retain our existing Premium Subscribers and the mix of subscription pricing plans.
New features and functionality have helped increase Premium Subscriber engagement over time.
We have found that Premium Subscribers who access our Service through multiple devices have higher engagement and lower churn, which increases their expected lifetime value to Spotify.
Ad-Supported Our Ad-Supported Service has no subscription fees and generally provides Ad-Supported Users with limited on-demand online access to our catalog of music and unlimited online access to our catalog of podcasts on their computers, tablets, mobile devices, and other smart devices.
Our Ad-Supported Service serves as both a Premium Subscriber acquisition channel and a robust option for users who are unable or unwilling to pay a monthly subscription fee but still want to enjoy access to a wide variety of high-quality audio content.
We generate revenue for our Ad-Supported segment primarily from the sale of display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions.
Revenue from our Ad-Supported segment is dependent primarily on the number and hours of engagement of our Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners and our ability to provide innovative advertising products that are relevant to those users 40 Table of Contents and enhance returns for our advertising partners.
Our advertising strategy centers on the belief that advertising products that are based in music and podcasts and are relevant to Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners can enhance user experiences and provide even greater returns for advertisers.
We have historically introduced, and continue to introduce, new advertising products across both music and podcast content.
The Spotify Audience Network (“SPAN”) is an audio advertising marketplace that connects advertisers to listeners across our owned and exclusive podcasts, podcasts from enterprise publishers via Megaphone, and podcasts from emerging creators via Spotify for Creators.
Through SPAN, we provide hosting and ad-insertion capabilities for audio publishers that allow us to sell targeted advertising to brand partners that enables them to reach listeners both on and off our platform.
Revenue from our Ad-Supported segment will also be impacted by the demographic profile of our Ad-Supported Users and podcast listeners and our ability to enable advertisers to reach their target audience with relevant advertising in the geographic markets in which we operate.
A large percentage of our Ad-Supported Users are between 18 and 34 years old.
By offering advertisers increased “self-serve options,” we continue to improve the efficiency and scalability of our advertising platforms.
Monetizing our Ad-Supported User base has historically been, and is expected to remain, more challenging in our two fastest growing regions, Latin America and the rest of the world, compared to Europe and North America.
Cost of revenue consists predominantly of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.
We incur royalty costs, which we pay to certain record labels, music publishers, audiobook publishers, and other rights holders, for the right to stream content to our users.
Music royalties are typically calculated monthly based on the combination of a number of different variables.
Generally, Subscription Offering music royalties are based on the greater of a percentage of relevant revenue and a per user amount.
Music royalties for the Ad-Supported Service are typically a percentage of relevant revenue, although certain agreements are based on the greater of a percentage of relevant revenue and an amount for each time a track is streamed.
We have negotiated lower per user amounts for our lower priced subscription plans such as our Family Plan, Duo Plan, and Student Plan.
The targets can include such measures as the number of applicable Premium Subscribers, the ratio of Ad-Supported Users to applicable Premium Subscribers, and/or the rates of applicable Premium Subscriber churn.
Royalties payable in relation to audiobook licenses are generally consumption-based.
Cost of revenue also includes the cost of podcast content assets (both produced and licensed).
Amortization of podcast content assets is recorded over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life or the license period (if relevant) and begins at the release of each episode.
Certain fixed fees to access content are recorded on a straight-line basis over the applicable license period.
We make payments to podcast publishers, whose content we monetize through advertising sales in SPAN, which are also included in cost of revenue.
Cost of revenue also includes credit card and payment processing fees for subscription revenue, advertising serving, advertising measurement, customer service, certain employee compensation and benefits, cloud computing, streaming, facility, and equipment costs.
We invest heavily in research and development in order to drive user engagement and customer satisfaction on our platform, which we believe helps drive organic growth in MAUs, which, in turn, drives additional 41 Table of Contents growth in, and better retention of, Premium Subscribers, as well as increased advertising opportunities to our users.
Expenses primarily comprise costs incurred for the development of products related to our platform and Service, as well as new and existing advertising products and improvements to our mobile application and desktop application and streaming services.
We define MAUs as the total count of Ad-Supported Users and Premium Subscribers that have consumed content for greater than zero milliseconds in the last thirty days from the period-end indicated.
Additionally, although we strive to detect and minimize non-bona fide accounts that may typically be created in an attempt to artificially stream content, they may contribute, from time to time, to an overstatement in our reported MAUs.
MAUs increased due to our continued investment in driving the growth of our Service through successful consumer marketing campaigns, enhanced content offerings, and product enhancements, resulting in continued user engagement and customer satisfaction.
Premium Subscribers We define Premium Subscribers as users that have completed registration with Spotify and have activated a payment method for the Subscription Offerings.
Our Family Plan consists of one primary subscriber and up to five additional sub-accounts, allowing up to six Premium Subscribers per Family Plan Subscription.
42 Table of Contents The table below sets forth our Premium Subscribers as of December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022.
As of December 31, Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs. 2023 2023 vs. 2022 (in millions, except percentages) Premium Subscribers 263 236 205 27 11 % 31 15 % Premium Subscribers were 263 million as of December 31, 2024.
Our free trial offers and global campaigns were meaningful contributors of total gross additions in Premium Subscribers, while our Family Plan also accounted for a significant portion of gross additions in Premium Subscribers.
In addition, there was an increase in the number of Premium Subscribers on our Duo Plan.
Ad-Supported MAUs We define Ad-Supported MAUs as the total count of Ad-Supported Users that have consumed content for greater than zero milliseconds in the last thirty days from the period-end indicated.
Ad-Supported MAUs increased due to our continued investment in driving the growth of our Ad-Supported Service through successful consumer marketing campaigns, enhanced content offerings, and product enhancements, resulting in continued Ad-Supported User engagement and customer satisfaction.
The increase was due primarily to an increase in the number of Premium Subscribers and an increase in Premium ARPU of 7%, as noted above.
Ad-Supported revenue For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, Ad-Supported revenue comprised 12% and 13%, respectively, of our total revenue.
For the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to 2023, Ad-Supported revenue increased by €173 million or 10%.
This increase was due primarily to growth in music impressions sold which increased revenue in our direct and programmatic channels as well as our self-serve platform by €114 million.
Ad sales from podcasts, and growth in marketplace programs, also increased revenue by €58 million for the year ended December 31, 2024.
Cost of revenue Year ended December 31, Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs. 2023 2023 vs. 2022 (in € millions, except percentages) Premium 9,324 8,231 7,355 1,093 13 % 876 12 % Ad-Supported 1,625 1,619 1,446 6 — % 173 12 % Total 10,949 9,850 8,801 1,099 11 % 1,049 12 % Premium cost of revenue For the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to 2023, Premium cost of revenue increased by €1,093 million, or 13%, and Premium cost of revenue as a percentage of Premium revenue decreased from 71% to 67%.
The increase in Premium cost of revenue was driven primarily by increases in Premium revenue driving increases in music royalties as well as an increase in audiobook licensing costs, partially offset by benefits from certain marketplace programs.
44 Table of Contents Ad-Supported cost of revenue For the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to 2023, Ad-Supported cost of revenue increased by €6 million, and Ad-Supported cost of revenue as a percentage of Ad-Supported revenue decreased from 96% to 88%.
The increase was driven primarily by an increase in advertising revenue and the volume of streams driving increases in music royalties, partially offset by benefits from certain marketplace programs, resulting in higher royalty costs of €62 million.
These increases were partially offset by a reduction in podcast production and personnel costs of €28 million.
Premium gross margin increased due primarily to revenue growth outpacing music royalty costs and audiobook licensing costs, and benefits from certain marketplace programs.
Additionally, the increase in gross margin was supported by a reduction in streaming delivery costs during the year ended December 31, 2024.
Ad-supported gross margin also increased due to a reduction in podcast production and personnel costs, growth in benefits from certain marketplace programs, and a reduction in streaming delivery costs during the year ended December 31, 2024.
Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” D. Trend Information Our results reflect the effects of our trial programs, both discounted and free trials, in addition to seasonal trends in user behavior and, with respect to our Ad-Supported segment, advertising behavior.
Historically, Premium Subscriber growth accelerates when we run such trial programs.
For our Ad-Supported segment, typically we experience higher advertising revenue in the fourth quarter of each calendar year due to greater advertising demand during the holiday season.
However, in the first quarter of each calendar year, we typically experience a seasonal decline in advertising revenue due to reduced advertiser demand.
In the markets where we offer audiobook listening time as part of the Premium subscription, we satisfy our performance obligation to provide a monthly entitlement to specified hours of audiobook content as these hours are consumed and recognize revenue over time using an output method based on the proportion of hours consumed.
Additionally, we estimate how many hours of audiobook content will not be used by eligible Premium Subscribers and recognize the revenue attributable to the unexercised rights in proportion to the pattern of audiobook consumption.
Content We incur royalty costs for the right to stream content to our users, paid to record labels, music publishers, and other rights holders.
Calculations are based on either Premium and Ad-Supported revenue earned or user/usage measures or a combination of these.
In particular, in certain jurisdictions rights holders have several years to claim royalties for works streamed each month.
1:24-cv-03809), alleging that beginning with its March 2024 reporting, Spotify USA Inc. improperly reported and underpaid royalties for its Premium Service as a bundle that includes a monthly allocation of audiobook access.
Amortization of podcast content assets is recorded in cost of revenue over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life or the license period, and begins at the release of each episode.
The economic life and expected amortization profile of podcast content assets is estimated by management based on historical listening patterns and is evaluated on an ongoing basis.
He oversees our subscriber and advertising businesses and all licensed, distributed, and owned content on the platform across music, podcasts, and audiobooks.
57 Table of Contents Executive Compensation Philosophy and Objectives We operate in the highly competitive and dynamic digital media industry as the world’s most popular global audio streaming subscription service.
To succeed in this environment, we must continuously develop solutions that meet the needs of our growing user base in a rapidly changing environment, efficiently develop and refine new and existing products and services, and demonstrate a strong return on investment to our advertisers.
We announce material financial information to our investors using our Investors website (investors.spotify.com), SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls, and webcasts.
We use these channels, as well as social media, to communicate with our users and the public about our company, our services, and other issues.
Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the channels listed on our Investors website.
11.1 Spotify Technology S.A. Insider Trading Policy.
F-2 Table of Contents Music Royalty Costs Description of the Matter As explained in Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements, cost of revenue consists predominantly of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.
The Company’s process to determine music royalty costs utilizes complex proprietary systems for the initiation, calculation and recording of a significant volume of data.
How We Addressed the Matter in We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Our Audit Company’s process to determine music royalty costs.
We compared royalty rates used in the calculations to the related license agreements and recalculated music royalty cost amounts.
In our opinion, Spotify Technology S.A. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, based on the COSO criteria.
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Group,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is audio streaming.
The Group’s premium service (“Premium Service”) provides users with unlimited online and offline high-quality streaming access to its catalog of music and podcasts.
In select markets, the Premium Service provides eligible users with limited online and offline streaming access to its catalog of audiobooks.
The Group’s ad-supported service (“Ad-Supported Service” and together with the Premium Service and other subscription offerings, the “Service”) has no subscription fees and provides users with limited on-demand online access to the catalog of music and unlimited online and offline access to the catalog of podcasts.
(d) Revenue recognition Premium revenue The Group generates revenue through the sale of subscriptions to the Premium Service and other subscription offerings (together with the Premium Service, “Subscription Offerings”).
As part of our Subscription Offerings, we also offer a Basic plan to eligible users in select markets that provides certain benefits of the Premium Service without the monthly audiobook listening time and an Audiobook Access Tier in the U.S. that provides specified hours of audiobook access a month without all of the benefits of the Premium Service.
Revenue from our Premium segment is a function of the price of our Subscription Offerings and the number of subscribers to our Subscription Offerings (“Premium Subscribers”).
The Subscription Offerings are primarily sold directly to end users.
The Premium Service is also sold through partners who are generally telecommunications companies that bundle the subscription with their own services or collect payment for the stand-alone subscriptions from their end customers.
Typically, the Subscription Offerings are paid for on a monthly basis in advance.
The Group satisfies its performance obligation to provide Premium streaming services, and revenue from these services is recognized, on a straight-line basis over the subscription period.
Additionally, in certain markets the specified monthly allocation of audiobook access within the Premium Service is considered to be a separate performance obligation to the customer.
In the markets where the Group offers audiobook listening time as part of the Premium subscription, the Group satisfies its performance obligation to provide a monthly entitlement to specified hours of audiobook content as these hours are consumed and recognize revenue over time using an output method based on the proportion of hours consumed.
Additionally, the Group estimates how many hours of audiobook content will not be used by eligible Premium Subscribers and recognizes the revenue attributable to the unexercised rights in proportion to the pattern of audiobook consumption.
For other bundles, revenue is recognized either on a straight-line basis over the subscription period or at a point in time when control of the service or product is transferred to the customer.
Premium partner subscription revenue is based on a per-subscriber rate in a negotiated partner agreement.
Premium partner services, may either be recognized gross or net, and may have multiple performance obligations to the customer, including an obligation to provide Premium streaming services and a monthly entitlement to specified hours of audiobook content.
Ad-Supported revenue The Group’s advertising revenue is generated primarily from the sale of display, audio, and video advertising delivered through advertising impressions.
(g) Cost of revenue Cost of revenue consists predominantly of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.
The Group incurs royalty costs paid to record labels, music publishers, audiobook publishers, and other rights holders for the right to stream content to the Group’s users.
The determination of the amount of the rights holders’ liability requires complex IT systems and a significant volume of data and is subject to a number of variables, including the revenue recognized, the type of content streamed and the country in which it is streamed, the product tier such content is streamed on, identification of the appropriate license holder, size of user base, ratio of Ad-Supported Users to applicable Premium Subscribers, and any applicable advertising fees and discounts, among other variables.
Additionally, cost of revenue includes credit card and payment processing fees for subscription revenue, advertising serving, advertising measurement, customer service, certain employee compensation and benefits, cloud computing, streaming, facility, and equipment costs, as well as the amortization of podcast content assets.
Amortization of podcast content assets is recorded over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life, or the license period (if relevant), and begins at the release of each episode.
Certain fixed fees to access content are recorded on a straight-line basis over the applicable license period.
The Group makes payments to podcast publishers, whose content we monetize through advertising sales.
(h) Research and development expenses Research and development expenses primarily comprise costs incurred for development of products related to the Group’s platform and service, as well as new and existing advertising products and improvements to the Group’s mobile and desktop applications and streaming services.
(r) Podcast content assets The Group incurs costs to acquire, license, produce or commission podcasts for inclusion on the Service, with some titles distributed more broadly.
The Group recognizes podcast content assets as current assets in the consolidated statement of financial position and related cash flows are presented as operating cash flows.
All podcast content costs are recorded in the Ad-Supported segment.
Amortization of podcast content assets is recorded in cost of revenue over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life or the license period (if relevant), and begins at the release of each episode.
The economic life and expected amortization profile of podcast content assets is estimated by management based on historical listening patterns and is evaluated on an ongoing basis.
The Group’s podcast content assets are generally expected to be consumed in less than three years, and typically, on an accelerated basis, as we expect more upfront listening in most cases.
Certain fixed fees to access content are recorded on a straight-line basis over the applicable license period.
Additionally, the economic life and expected amortization profile of podcast content assets is estimated by management based on historical listening patterns and is evaluated on an ongoing basis.
Revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed.
The increase in deferred revenue in 2024 is primarily a result of an increase in the number of Premium Subscribers as well as price increases.
Additionally, during the second fiscal quarter of 2023, we executed a strategic realignment and reorganization plan focusing on podcast operations and rationalizing our content portfolio.
For the Ad-supported segment, we applied a revenue multiple of 3.7 to the forecasted 12 months revenue preceding the assumed exit date.
During the year ended December 31, 2023, we executed a strategic realignment and reorganization plan focusing on podcast operations and rationalizing our content portfolio.
As of April 2019, Spotify USA Inc.’s settlement of the Ferrick et al.
F-49 Table of Contents Recurring fair value measurements Long term investment – Tencent Music Entertainment Group The Group’s approximate 9% investment in TME is carried at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Long term investments – other The Group has interests in certain long term investments, the most significant of which is our equity investment in DK Holdco, LLC (“DistroKid”), an independent digital music distribution service.
Revenue for the Premium segment is generated primarily through subscription fees.
Revenue for the Ad-Supported segment is primarily generated through the sale of advertising across the Group’s music and podcast content.
All podcast content costs are recorded in the Ad-Supported segment.
The costs of providing audiobook content as part of the Premium subscription are recorded in the Premium segment.
Commitments The Group is subject to the following minimum guarantees relating to the content on its Service, the majority of which relate to minimum royalty payments associated with its license agreements for the use of licensed content, as at December 31: 2024 2023 2022 (in € millions) Not later than one year 3,021 1,055 1,111 Later than one year but not more than 5 years 1,399 3,610 298 Total 4,420 4,665 1,409 In addition, the Group is subject to various non-cancelable purchase obligations and service agreements with minimum spend commitments, including a service agreement with Google for the use of Google Cloud Platform and certain podcast and marketing commitments as at December 31: 2024 2023 2022 (in € millions) Not later than one year 598 453 485 Later than one year but not more than 5 years 1,021 1,369 334 More than 5 years 68 83 98 Total 1,687 1,905 917 Contingencies Various legal actions, proceedings, and claims are pending or may be instituted or asserted against the Group.
As a general matter, the music and other content made available on the Group’s Service are licensed to the Group by various third parties.
1:24-cv-03809), alleging that beginning with its March 2024 reporting, Spotify USA Inc. improperly reported and underpaid royalties for its Premium F-54 Table of Contents Service as a bundle that includes a monthly allocation of audiobook access.
Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Canada Spotify Australia Pty Ltd Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Australia Spotify Brasil Serviços De Música LTDA Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Brazil Spotify Japan K.K.
Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Japan Spotify India LLP Sales, distribution, and marketing 100 % India S Servicios de Música México, S.A. de C.V.
Sales, marketing, and other support services 100 % Singapore Spotify Italy S.r.l.
The Company exists under the name of “SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A.”.
If after the end of the subscription period not all of the preferential subscription rights offered to the existing shareholder(s) have been subscribed by the latter, third parties may be allowed to participate in the share capital increase, except if the Board of Directors decides that the preferential subscription rights shall be offered to the existing shareholders who have already exercised their rights during the subscription period, in proportion to the portion their ordinary shares represent in the share capital; the modalities for the subscription are determined by the Board of Directors.
La Société adopte la dénomination « SPOTIFY TECHNOLOGY S.A. ».
As a result, we must be very mindful and careful about how we treat information that we have access to, especially when it may impact transactions in the securities of Spotify Technology S.A. (the “Company”).
This Policy extends to all activities of an Insider, either within or outside such Insider’s duties at Spotify.
Examples of material nonpublic information with respect to Spotify include, among other things, nonpublic information about: ● Operating or financial results, known or projected future earnings or losses; ● Unannounced licensing or other content-related deals; ● A pending or proposed merger, acquisition or tender offer; ● Changes in Spotify’s senior management, auditors or board of directors; ● Litigation, whether pending or threatened, and any positive or negative developments thereof; or ● Any other information which is likely to have a significant impact on Spotify’s financial results or stock price.
If you possess any material nonpublic information, even if you are not in a blackout period, the law and this Policy require that you refrain from buying or selling Spotify’s securities until after the information has been disclosed to the public and absorbed by the market or is no longer material.
In addition, it is also a violation of this Policy if you communicate any material nonpublic information about Spotify to any other person, including family and friends.
No Insider who knows of any such material nonpublic information may communicate that information to, or tip, any other person, including family members and friends, or otherwise disclose such information without Spotify's authorization.
If you have knowledge of any such information, you must preserve its confidentiality until Spotify discloses such information to the public.
Other Blackout Periods From time to time, other types of material nonpublic information regarding Spotify (such as mergers, acquisitions, dispositions or new extraordinary product developments) may be pending and not be publicly disclosed.
You will be notified if Spotify imposes a special blackout period that applies to you.
If an individual is in possession of material nonpublic information when his or her service terminates, that individual may not trade in Spotify’s securities until that information has become public or is no longer material.
Further Information To provide assistance in preventing inadvertent violations and avoiding even the appearance of an improper transaction, if you are in doubt, you are advised to consult with the General Counsel of the Company or his or her designee before buying or selling (or otherwise making any transfer, gift, pledge or loan thereof) any Spotify securities, even if you are not in a blackout period.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 20-F of Spotify Technology S.A.; 2.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 20-F of Spotify Technology S.A.; 2.