For more information on those risks, please review today's earnings release and Adobe's SEC filings.
We saw strength across Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience Cloud, achieving revenue of $5.41 billion, representing 11% year-over-year growth.
The product advances we've launched in the past 18 months are delighting a huge and growing universe of users and enterprises, empowering them to unleash their creativity, accelerate document productivity and power their digital businesses.
Our vision revolves around Adobe's deep technology platforms across Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience Cloud, which, when integrated, provide significant differentiation and value.
We are amplifying creativity and productivity by enabling the convergence of products like Photoshop, Express, and Acrobat as knowledge workers and creatives seek to make content more compelling and engaging.
New offerings include Adobe GenStudio and Firefly Services empower companies to address personalized content creation at scale with agility and enable them to address their content supply chain challenges.
Adobe's customer-centric approach to AI is highly differentiated across data, models and interfaces.
Adobe Express is a quick and easy create-anything application, unlocking creative expression for millions of users.
Adobe Experience Platform AI Assistant empowers brands to automate workflows and generate new audiences and journeys.
Adobe GenStudio brings together content and data, integrating high-velocity creative expression with the enterprise activation needed to deliver personalization at scale.
In Q3, we achieved net new Digital Media ARR of $504 million and revenue of $4 billion, which grew 12% year-over-year, fueled by innovation in both our Creative and Document businesses.
Given the early adoption of AI Assistant, we intend to actively promote subscription plans that include generative AI capabilities over legacy perpetual plans that do not.
In Q3, we achieved Document Cloud revenue of $807 million, growing 18% year-over-year.
We added $163 million of net new Document Cloud ARR.
Other highlights include: expanded Acrobat customer value with multi- document support for AI Assistant, enhanced meeting transcript capabilities and support for larger documents; optimized AI Assistant for mobile, web and desktop experiences, including voice-enabled conversations on Android; continued strength of PDF-based collaboration, with shared links growing greater than 70% year-over- year; increased top of funnel through Acrobat Web, with monthly active users growing over 35% year-over-year as a result of link sharing and our Microsoft Edge and Google Chrome extensions; key enterprise customer wins include Amazon, Charles Schwab, Disney, Home Depot, KPMG, RedBull, Sutter Health, and the U.S. Treasury Department.
Creative professionals are being asked to create more images, designs and videos faster than ever before.
Small businesses are looking to engage prospects on social channels and large enterprises are defining their content supply workflows to deliver personalization at scale.
AI has the potential to empower creative professionals, communicators, consumers and organizations of all sizes to be more creative and productive.
With Express, we're on a multi-year strategic journey to dramatically expand our reach across customer segments.
Express empowers a broad array of individuals and businesses, from solopreneurs to the largest enterprises in the world.
We're continuing to grow Express as we ramp our go-to-market activities to support recent product releases, including Express for individuals, Express for Education, Express for Teams and Express for Enterprises.
Acrobat Pro single app continues to be a growth driver in Creative Cloud, reflecting the increasing adoption of PDF as a preferred format to create, collaborate and share visually compelling content.
Key enterprise customer wins include The Brandtech Group, Dentsu, Estée Lauder, Google, MediaMonks, Meta, MLB, Newell Brands, PepsiCo, Stagwell Group and the US Navy.
We look forward to hosting Adobe MAX, the world's largest creativity conference, next month in Miami, where we will welcome more than 10,000 members of our global community and engage with hundreds of thousands more online.
We will hear from inspiring creators and unveil innovations across our clouds.
In Q3, we achieved Experience Cloud revenue of $1.35 billion.
Subscription revenue was $1.23 billion, representing 12% year-over-year growth.
Customer Experience Management remains top of mind for B2C and B2B companies around the world as they focus on digital strategies for customer acquisition, engagement, retention and expansion.
Enterprises want an integrated platform to deliver personalized experiences at scale to their customers, while maximizing the ROI of their marketing and customer experience investments.
Through the integration of Experience Cloud and Creative Cloud, Adobe is uniquely positioned to combine the right content, data and journeys in real-time for every customer experience.
The revenue growth we are driving across our categories, content, commerce and workflows, data insights and audiences, and customer journeys, all built on the Adobe Experience Platform, demonstrate the strength of our business.
Global brands trust Adobe to build their content supply chain and deliver personalization at scale, making us the number one digital experience platform in the industry.
Customers are embracing the opportunity to address their content supply chain challenges with Adobe GenStudio.
With native integrations across Experience Cloud and Creative Cloud, GenStudio empowers marketers to quickly plan, create, store, deliver and measure marketing content and drive greater efficiency in their organizations.
Leveraging the GenStudio solution, Vanguard was able to increase quality engagement by 176% by focusing on one-to-one personalization and to realize millions in savings by improving content velocity and resource allocation with an end-to-end content creation workflow.
Other highlights include: the general availability of Adobe Content Hub, further enhancing the value of Adobe Experience Manager Assets.
Content Hub enables brands to reimagine how creative assets are used across their organization and with external agencies, driving content velocity and major efficiency gains.
AEM Assets is used by the majority of the Fortune 50, including eight of the 10 largest media companies, nine of the 10 largest financial services companies and eight of the 10 largest retailers.
We extended our leadership in this category through the general availability of Adobe Workfront Planning, which delivers a comprehensive view of all marketing activities in an organization and enables teams to optimize marketing planning and execution.
Continued momentum for Adobe Experience Platform and native applications, including Real-time Customer Data Platform, Customer Journey Analytics and Adobe Journey Optimizer.
We expanded our AEP portfolio with the general availability of Adobe Journey Optimizer B2B Edition, which leverages generative AI to deliver 6 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q3 2024 Earnings Call 12-Sep-2024 personalized experiences to buying groups, the decision-makers, practitioners and stakeholders responsible for major purchasing decisions.
We look forward to unveiling new customer experience management innovations across content, data and journeys at MAX next month, showcasing integrations across Express, Creative Cloud and Experience Cloud for freelancers, solopreneurs and marketers across agencies and enterprises.
Our pace of innovation, commitment to customer value, global partner ecosystem, and category-defining solutions position us to continue our market leadership.
Today, I'll start by summarizing Adobe's performance in Q3 fiscal 2024, highlighting growth drivers across our businesses, and I'll finish with financial targets.
In Q3, Adobe achieved record revenue of $5.41 billion, which represents 11% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
We're making significant investments in our technology platforms, launching global campaigns to expand our customer base, and attracting top-tier talent, while delivering world-class cash flows and profitability.
Third quarter business and financial highlights included: GAAP diluted earnings per share of $3.76 and non- GAAP diluted earnings per share of $4.65; Digital Media revenue of $4.00 billion; net new Digital Media ARR of $504 million; Digital Experience revenue of $1.35 billion; cash flows from operations of $2.02 billion; and RPO of $18.14 billion exiting the quarter.
In our Digital Media segment, we achieved Q3 revenue of $4.00 billion, which represents 11% year-over-year growth, or 12% in constant currency.
We exited the quarter with $16.76 billion of Digital Media ARR, growing our ending ARR book of business 13% year-over-year in constant currency.
Adobe achieved Document Cloud revenue of $807 million, which represents 18% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
We added $163 million of net new Document Cloud ARR, which was a record for a Q3, growing our ending ARR book of business 24% year-over-year in constant currency.
Q3 Document Cloud growth drivers included: usage and MAU growth across Adobe Reader and Acrobat; usage and MAU growth via third party ecosystems, including Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge extensions, which are driving free-to-paid conversion; demand for Acrobat desktop and mobile subscriptions across all customer segments and geographies; strength in monetization of our AI Assistant with new Acrobat subscriptions; strength in SMBs driven by our reseller partner network; and strength in enterprise and public sector sales, with a number of large deals closing in the quarter.
7 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q3 2024 Earnings Call 12-Sep-2024 We achieved Creative revenue of $3.19 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth, or 11% in constant currency.
We added $341 million of net new Creative ARR in the quarter, growing our ending ARR book of business 11% year-over-year in constant currency.
Q3 Creative growth drivers included: new subscriptions for Creative Cloud All Apps across customer segments, including Teams, Enterprise, and Education with back-to-school demand; strength across our Acrobat Pro, Illustrator, Lightroom and Photoshop single apps on Adobe.com; growing demand for our AI-first Adobe Express offerings in mobile, emerging markets and education; early monetization of our new Firefly Services solution in the enterprise segment; continued momentum with new subscriptions in emerging markets; and contribution from customers stepping up to our higher-value Creative plans at renewal.
Turning to our Digital Experience segment, in Q3, we achieved revenue of $1.35 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
Digital Experience subscription revenue was $1.23 billion, growing 12% year-over-year as reported and in constant currency.
Q3 Digital Experience growth drivers included: strong subscription revenue growth at scale of AEP and native applications, up greater than 50% year-over-year; strong subscription revenue growth with Adobe Experience Manager and Workfront; success in booking transformational deals as well as individual solution selling; continued strength in retention and expansion across our enterprise customers; and growing pipeline for our GenStudio solutions to address the content supply chain opportunity.
For Q4, we're targeting total Adobe revenue of $5.50 billion to $5.55 billion; Digital Media net new ARR of approximately $550 million; Digital Media segment revenue of $4.09 billion to $4.12 billion; Digital Experience segment revenue of $1.36 billion to $1.38 billion; Digital Experience subscription revenue of $1.23 billion to $1.25 billion; tax rate of approximately 16% on a GAAP basis and 18.5% on a non-GAAP basis; GAAP earnings per share of $3.58 to $3.63; and non-GAAP earnings per share of $4.63 to $4.68.
Adobe's focus on responsible innovation, with customers at the center, continues to be a unifying purpose for the company.
In five years, this mission has gone from a vision to reality with companies including Amazon, Google, Leica, Meta, Qualcomm, Sony, TikTok and others all committing to implementing Content Credentials.
I am confident that Adobe's culture, innovative product roadmap, global market opportunity, trusted brand and the unwavering commitment of our employees will continue to drive our success.
Is it pricing, AI traction, and particularly the Document Cloud net new ARR?
As we had said, we expect Creative to show growth on growth year-over-year, and so that also played out exactly as we expected.
We would expect Creative to again grow when you talk about growth over growth, net new ARR in Q4, and all of the new initiatives that we're talking about, AI, et cetera, continue to perform.
Obviously, link sharing and what we've done with reader distribution across mobile, web and desktop, that's really what continues to drive this business.
10 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q3 2024 Earnings Call 12-Sep-2024 As we look at Creative Cloud, again, we have a broader set of offerings than we've ever had, right.
We have things like – with Creative Cloud, we have higher value, higher priced offers, thanks to the AI innovation that's happening in the base plans that are impacting how the Creative Cloud business is doing.
Now, with web and mobile, including freemium and lower-priced offerings that are driving more proliferation, and the blend of those two things also sort of comes into the strength of the quarter and how we see things going out.
When you look at then how that converts to monetization, first and foremost, we've integrated it, a lot of that value, into our core products with more value and more pricing.
We're also seeing that when people come to Adobe to try our Creative Cloud applications or Express application, they're able to convert better.
Firefly Services, which is you can think of that also as a consumption model where we have that, it's off to a really good start.
Our ability to give enterprises the ability to automate content, create custom models within enterprises, we're seeing real traction because it's a differentiated solution and that it's designed to be commercially safe.
And as it relates to the core subscription models, again, David said this, but I'll reiterate it, which is the core subscription models for products like Photoshop and Illustrator, I think the differentiation is the combination of the model and the technology.
So, maybe we can just talk a little bit about are there any pricing headwinds or tailwinds that we should keep in mind specifically for Document Cloud?
And also, maybe you can give us a sense for sort of where Document Cloud is in its journey to maybe becoming more of a subscription-heavy business.
The question on subscription-heavy, it is a very strong subscription business for us already.
And the distribution we have across desktop, web, mobile, including web extensions, is really the foundation of everything we do, because that becomes the top of funnel for us.
And as I said on the prepared remarks, Document 15 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q3 2024 Earnings Call 12-Sep-2024 Cloud is substantially a subscription business, but now with AI Assistant being available to subscribers and not as directly to perpetual users, we expect that to continue to transition even further.
On the marketing side, we've been ramping that very actively.
And then on the back of all that, we're ramping our direct sales.
Adobe.com journeys, we have a lot of businesses and individuals coming on Adobe.com and doing a lot more optimization in the App Store.
Wanted to ask you about the Digital Experience side of the business.
When we look at the Digital Experience business, we are pleased with the overall execution of the business.
And we have the unique ability to bring together the right content, the customer data, and the customer journeys across our Experience Cloud and the integration with Creative Cloud to deliver those personalized experiences, and that's pretty unique to what we can do at Adobe.
I think in this case, they look at our offerings and see the ability to not only help with growth, they also look at the efficiency gains that we can help them create, and that's helping us as enterprises scrutinize their spend.
And when you look at our guide, obviously we are focused on most closely on our subscription business, and that's the business that continues to grow strongly, and showing good performance on the subscription business.
And our overall revenue is a combination of subscription and services where we really are focused on working with a broad global partner ecosystem to make sure that we deliver services to our customers and help them realize value from our offerings.
Revenue, EPS, Digital Media ARR, DX, subs revenue, Acrobat certainly also continued to show the strength.
We have momentum in the business and the innovation roadmap, I mean, across all of the key initiatives that we've been talking about, whether that's Express, GenStudio, and the excitement that people have associated with automating all of that content, AEP and Apps on the data side, imaging and video, the work that the Digital Media team has done on Photoshop and on Illustrator, and then what's coming down the pike on video and Firefly Services.
I think the AI monetization as well, which I know is a theme of a number of people that have asked, whether it's Acrobat, whether it's the premium SKUs as it relates to Experience Cloud, whether it's what's happening on Gen Fill and the usage of Gen Fill, Lightroom and Lightroom Mobile.
I think we're clearly demonstrating how AI can both drive value for our customers, and therefore, we acquired new customers and retained customers better.