LA is home to hundreds of Spotify employees, millions of music fans, and countless members across the creative industries.
This has allowed me to spend more time working on the future of Spotify, which is where I’ve always believed I can have the biggest impact.
In Q4, we enhanced our product in areas like video and audiobooks, with many more innovations to come in the quarters ahead.
Gustav - do you want to share a few thoughts on how we’ve innovated the product given how consequential it’s been to our growth?
For example, when we saw higher engagement happening on video podcasts and received the feedback from creators that they were looking for new monetization opportunities, we moved fast to launch our new Spotify Partner program and video podcasts experience.
Video podcasts are seeing enormous spikes in popularity on Spotify and we now have more than 330,000 video podcasts globally.
During a creator event we held in LA last November, we announced that we are now giving Premium users the ability to watch their favorite podcasts uninterrupted by dynamic ads.
We also introduced a new effort to help video creators turn their shows into a sustainable business.
And in just the first couple of months, more than 70% of eligible shows and networks have already enrolled.
Wrapped is a massive cultural moment for Spotify, but it’s also become a significant driver of our business.
We are also going all in on our core and investing in more music experiences on the platform.
Think video, the higher priced premium tier we’ve discussed previously and new ways to bring fans and artists closer together – features and offers that will all continue to push the historic expansion we are seeing in the music industry.
And we’re doing all of this while we continue to learn and optimize, investing for the longer term benefit of artists, creators and our users.
We added 11 million net Subscribers finishing at 263 million.
This represented our best Q4 for MAU net additions, while the net additions of Subscribers matched the peak performance we delivered 5 years ago.
Premium revenue rose 19% Y/Y on a constant currency basis, driven by continued subscriber growth and ARPU growth associated with price increases.
With respect to MAU net additions - we had an exceptionally strong Q4 with outperformance driven by developing markets, and we are not prioritizing retention of the recent influx of lower engagement users in Q1 as we continue our focus on growing higher value users.
With respect to Subscriber net additions - we expect another year of healthy growth with a focus on customer quality and improving LTVs.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ424.