As we noted in the letter, we've evolved and we're going to continue to evolve, developing our revenue model and adding things like advertising and our extra member feature, things that aren't directly connected to number of members.
So we're going to continue to report subscribers until Q1 of next year, which links into our next annual revenue guidance for 2025.
And so -- and we believe that those are the measurements of success in streaming.
What changes inside Netflix and/or the broader industry explain the significant improvement in member growth we're seeing today, excluding the paid-sharing initiative?
But a key component of our something that we're seeking to get constantly better at is that ability to find audiences for all those great titles.
But part of that is that product we do to effectively connect those folks with titles that they will love, which then enables us to find the largest audiences for those titles that we think that they could get anywhere.
We've done a lot of hard work over the past 18 months or so to reaccelerate the business and reaccelerate revenue through combination of improving our core service, which Greg and Ted just talked about, and rolling out paid sharing, launching our ads business.
So the key is to, as you just heard from Greg and Ted, continually improve our service, drive more engagement, more member value.
We'll be able to occasionally price and add value and and also have a big, highly engaged audience for advertisers.
So the second question was, do you expect Q2 subscriber growth to be higher or lower than Q2 of the prior year?
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2024 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY APR 18, 2024 And we're also growing our ads tier at a nice clip, as you've seen and I'm sure we'll talk about.
And we're building into a much more kind of durable and healthy foundation for revenue growth going forward across a larger base of paid members and a really kind of strong and scaled, highly engaged audience for it to build into our advertising over time and a strong paid-sharing solution also to kind of penetrate into those households.
We've managed that balance historically pretty well, growing content investment, growing profit, growing profit margin and growing cash flow.
So rather than thinking beyond sort of specific cohorts or specific numbers, we really think about this more as developing more mechanisms, more effective ways to convert folks who are interacting with us, whether they be borrowers or folks that were members before they were coming back, we call them rejoiners, or folks that have never been a Netflix member.
So all of those improvements could allow us to effectively get more of that 500 million-plus smart TV households sign up and become members.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2024 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY APR 18, 2024 And as we mentioned earlier on the call, too, I think we're noting that while we're fully anticipating continuing to grow subs, the overall business growth now has extra levers and extra drivers like plan optimization, including things like extra members, ads revenue, pricing into more value, which is important.
I'll move this on now to a series of questions around advertising.
What are the most important drivers of scaling your ad tier when you think about adjustments you could make to pricing and plans, partner bundles and marketing?
And I would say we're generally taking our entire playbook, everything that we've learned about how do you grow members, and we're applying it to our ads tier now.
So clearly, that means partner channels, it means device integrations, bundles, integrated.
Those are all important tools for growth just as they are and will continue to be in our non-ads offering; increasing awareness of the quality of our ads experience, especially relative to the linear TV ads experience, which in many countries is really quite poor.
$6.99 is an example in the United States for multiple streams, full HD downloads.
We think that's a great entertainment value, especially at the industry-leading low ad load that we've got.
So I think you can see the results of leveraging all of these mechanisms and more and how our ads tier has been scaling over the last couple of quarters.
We've got more to do in terms of effective go-to-market, more technical features, more ads products.
Part one, can you update us on your thinking around the optimal spread between the ad tier and the ad-free tier?
Secondly, is your advertising ARPU, excluding the subscription fee, up meaningfully versus your original comments that it was in the $8 to $9 range last year?
But I think a good general guideline for us in the long term is that it would be healthy for us to land overall monetization between our ads and non-ad offerings and roughly equivalent position.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2024 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY APR 18, 2024 kept up with that growth in scale and inventory as we're still early in building out our sales capabilities and our ad products.
But that is an opportunity for us because this -- we're still a very premium content environment, very highly engaged audience that's at an increasing scale.
But over time, we expect to be similar in revenue on our ads tier, a combination of subscription as well as ads revenue with those kind of non-ads offering.
And do you believe the base of ad support users is now of the scale that upfront commitments can drive a meaningful change in advertising revenue and be a contributor to ARM growth in 2025?
I think this is an opportunity to reengage with advertisers and look at the fundamentals of what our offering is.
We've got great engagement from our members on our ads tier.
We're making progress on technical features like measurement ads products.
Given what seems like a very favorable current backdrop for Netflix to acquire and license content, why not lean in even more aggressively?
Independent of the availability of licensed content, you should look at it -- I think we're -- we've always been very disciplined about the way we invest in the business and how we grow it.
And we can get a lot of bang for our buck by spending our money well and producing our shows really well and also by acquiring the right content.
And to be clear, like -- as you say, there has been more license content opportunity, but the vast majority of our content spend is still into original programming.
So we'll always complement it with great license content for that variety and quality for our members, but the original content is still our future, too, yes.
How does that content benefit your member base and advertising growth goals?
On-demand streaming have been unbelievable for consumer choice and control, and it's really put the controls of television back in the hands of consumers, which has been really phenomenal.
So I think the core of it is, is that we're going to look at those opportunities with the same discipline that we do when we talk to movie producers and television networks about putting our content on the air.
And that's according to the Nielsen streaming data.
And do you envision Netflix having content here so that you can continue to expand your content genres and further segment your customer base?
And as we add more entertainment value, then, of course, we can go back to our subscribers and ask them to pay a little bit more to keep that virtuous cycle moving.
You can use total consumer spend on entertainment in the markets and categories that we compete in.
They're going to get more for less, 2 streams versus 1.
We've got higher definition, we've got downloads, all at a lower price.
As we do that, we would expect to continue to grow our content investment as we have historically into the highest-impact areas but also be quite disciplined there.
The question is, what are your thoughts on the competitive impact from short-form video consumption?
The same as it is with other media companies who provide content to YouTube, by way of example.
These technologies are the foundation for our recommendation systems that help us find these largest audiences for our titles and deliver the most satisfaction for members.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16 NETFLIX, INC. FQ1 2024 EARNINGS CALL - PRELIMINARY COPY APR 18, 2024 Copyright © 2024 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.