They talk more about Netflix, which drives acquisition.
And they place a higher value on their Netflix subscription.
We're excited about the progress that we've seen there, so we're polishing it up, and we're excited to bring that to our subscribers around the world.
And then we're also growing advertising as the principal goal here is the more effective way to give members and members-to-be a lower-priced plan to access all of that great entertainment.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 5 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2024 EARNINGS CALL OCT 17, 2024 I think it's worth noting, it takes time to build these new initiatives to the point where they're significant given that we already have a fairly large core business.
At a high level, when we think about the Netflix revenue growth algorithm, can you please provide some color on the pieces moving forward between organic membership growth, ARM increases and advertising?
So the things you just heard about from Greg and Ted, further investing in our core film and TV offering, improving product discovery, expanding into new areas like live and ads and games.
Can you please discuss the levers that will move advertising to a more -- to a primary contributor to growth after 2025?
And how should we think about improvements in terms of your ability to monetize your advertising inventory?
I would say the most important part is we've been carrying 2 top- level priorities when we think about our ads business.
Priority #1 was we have to grow our ad tier membership so that we can get to sufficient scale to be relevant in each market for advertisers.
And the big priority #2 is we have to improve our capabilities and attractiveness to advertisers and therefore the monetization of all that inventory.
Q3, we mentioned in the letter, ads plan accounted for over 50% of sign- ups in our ads countries.
That's a leading indicator about how you think about sort of ads membership there.
Our ads plan membership base was up 35% quarter-over-quarter.
Our ads plan members are watching similar amount of Copyright © 2024 S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2024 EARNINGS CALL OCT 17, 2024 view hours and similar titles, too, which is probably interesting to note, relative to comparable non-ads plan members.
I think it's worth noting we've got a lot of work still ahead of us to achieve that goal, to make our offering better for advertisers.
Our first-party ad server, which is a key component of unlocking value in the space, that's on track to launch in Canada this quarter and then the rest of our ad markets in 2025.
We've got our partnerships with Trade Desk and Google Live, and those are going well.
It depends heavily on thrilling engagement, which is true for both of our subscription business and our ad business.
So what advertisers want to do is they want to be close to the stories that people are watching, the stories that people are talking about, the events that people are gathering to be part of.
And stepping back and sort of just putting that into broader context, our goal over the next 5 or 10 years is to combine the best of digital advertising.
So this is all the things that we know from that targeting, personalization, relevance with the best of TV advertising.
We've got healthy CPMs at the high end of that premium CTV ad market.
And while ads won't be a primary driver of revenue in 2025, because we're still scaling that audience and that inventory faster than our ability to monetize it, we definitely see already the momentum growth in the monetization and our opportunity to close that gap.
So for 2025, we expect that ads revenue will roughly double year-over-year, albeit off a small base.
So I think it's also worth noting that like ads against premium video, it's a proven model.
So if we take the potential size of that opportunity, the growth trajectories that we are seeing, that's what makes us so excited about ads being able to be one of those growing levers to support our sustaining healthy revenue and profit growth in the years to come.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2024 EARNINGS CALL OCT 17, 2024 What have we learned?
More channels mean it's easier for more clients to buy.
As we mentioned previously, just this last question, we're seeing a solid trajectory on ads revenue growth.
And the good news is like we've got a long road map of things that we know will make our ads more valuable.
Look, I'm just going to reiterate, we are in the subscription and entertainment business.
It's our desire to kind of keep adding value to our consumers for their subscription dollar.
Paying upfront, something that Netflix actually pioneered, benefits creators and it benefits Netflix.
And I would say just stepping back, we look at the long-term monetization opportunity, and we feel that there's a tremendous amount of potential there as long as we can continue to deliver on improving the variety and quality of our TV and film slate, you've heard a lot about that and what we're excited about over the next year to come, as well as expand our offering into new areas.
You've increased prices for your non-ads plans but have kept the ad tier at the same lower price while other streaming services have been increasing prices on both.
How do you think about the right spread between the ad tier and the non-ad tiers?
I think it's also important to say that we love the low price point and increased accessibility that comes with our ad plan.
You get an amazing offering of TV shows, films and games, 2 streams, HD plus downloads.
And any expectations to phase out Basic in other ad markets going forward?
I think it's a good example of what I just mentioned before, how we sort of continue to evolve plans and pricing, thinking about expanding that range, especially the low end on our ads plan, but also keeping the number of choices manageable.
Do you see YouTube's growing share of TV consumption as friend or foe?
When I look at YouTube specifically, I'd say look, we compete directly with YouTube for people's time, for the time they spend on that TV screen.
And we continue to invest in ambitious premium content to grow our share of engagement.
We think that Netflix is the best place for premium stories because we're the home to the best storytellers.
Our subscription model generates higher returns for creators.
So Netflix and YouTube, while we do compete for that time, we're interestingly complementary as well.
So we put up our trailers on YouTube, and they get a lot of viewing, which is great because it drives a lot of viewing on Netflix.
So we think among those advantages that we have here is that streaming is the future.
His question is Netflix doesn't need to bundle with other streaming services, but could there be an opportunity to leverage your industry-leading global member base, be it offering a bundle with a less scaled streamer, potentially one or more services with complementary content like live sports and in exchange for a share of subscription economics or advertising inventory?
It's a comfortable business model for legacy media companies.
And kind of given the narrow scope of the libraries on these services and the fairly limited engagement, it makes sense for them to kind of replicate some of the older media models of kind of creating these bundles.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2024 EARNINGS CALL OCT 17, 2024 Copyright © 2024 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.