Microsoft completed the acquisition of Activision Blizzard on October 13th, 2023.
We are off to a strong start to the fiscal year, driven by the continued strength of the Microsoft Cloud, which surpassed $31.8 billion in quarterly revenue, up 24%.
Azure again took share as organizations bring their workloads to our cloud.
We have the most comprehensive cloud footprint, with more than 60 datacenter regions worldwide, as well as the best AI infrastructure for both training and inference.
And we also have our AI services deployed in more regions than any other cloud provider.
Azure AI provides access to best-in-class frontier models from OpenAI and open source models, including our own as well as from Meta and Hugging Face, which customers can use to build their own AI apps while meeting specific cost, latency, and performance needs.
Because of our overall differentiation, more than 18,000 organizations now use Azure OpenAI Service, including new-to-Azure customers.
And we’re expanding our reach with digital-first companies with OpenAI APIs, as leading AI startups use OpenAI to power their AI solutions, therefore making them Azure customers as well.
With Azure Arc, we are meeting customers where they are, helping them run apps across on-prem, edge, and multi-cloud environments.
We are the only other cloud provider to run Oracle’s database services, making it simpler for customers to migrate their on-prem Oracle databases to our cloud.
Customers like PepsiCo and Vodafone will have access to a seamless, fully integrated experience for deploying, managing, and using Oracle database instances on Azure.
And we are the cloud of choice for customers’ SAP workloads too.
Companies like Brother Industries, Hanes, Zeiss, and ZF Group all run SAP on Azure.
And with Microsoft Fabric, we are unifying compute, storage, and governance into one end-to-end analytical solution, with an all-inclusive business model.
Finally, Power Apps remains the market leader in low code/no code development, now with 20 million monthly active users, up 40% year-over- year.
All-up, Dynamics 365 took share for the tenth consecutive quarter.
For example, our Sales Copilot helps sellers at more than 15,000 organizations – including Rockwell Automation, Sandvik Coromant, Securitas, Teleperformance – personalize customer interactions based on data from third party CRMs.
We’re also bringing Copilot to Dynamics 365 to help with everything from suggested actions and content ideas, to faster access to valuable business data.
And this quarter we introduced Copilot in Dynamics 365 Field Service to help streamline frontline tasks.
We are also introducing healthcare data solutions in Microsoft Fabric, enabling providers like Northwestern Medicine and SingHealth to unify health data in a secure, compliant way.
And with our Microsoft Cloud for Sovereignty, which will become generally available by end of the calendar year, we offer industry-leading data sovereignty and encryption controls, meeting the specific needs of public sector customers around the world.
When it comes to Teams, usage continues to grow, with more than 320 million monthly active users making Teams the place to work across chat, collaboration, meetings, and calling.
This quarter, we introduced a new version of Teams that is up to two times faster while using 50% less memory and includes seamless cross-tenant communications and collaboration.
And more than 10,000 paid customers now use Teams Premium.
There are more than 2,000 apps in Teams store, and collaborative apps from Adobe, Atlassian, Workday each exceeded 1 million monthly active users on Teams.
And with Viva, we’ve created a new market category for employee experience, helping companies like DELL, Lloyds Banking Group, and PayPal build high performance organizations.
With Skills in Viva, we’re bringing together information from Microsoft 365 and LinkedIn to help employers understand workforce gaps and suggest personalized learning content to address it – all in the flow of work.
All-up, we continue to see more organizations choose Microsoft 365.
And companies across the private and public sector, including Cerberus, Chanel, DXC Technology all rely on our premium E5 offerings for advanced security, compliance, voice, and analytics.
We rolled out the biggest update to Windows 11 ever, adding 150 new features, including new AI-powered experiences in apps like Clipchamp, Paint, and Photos.
Finally, with Windows 365 Boot and Switch, we’re making it easier than ever for employees at companies like Crocs, Hamburg Commercial Bank, the ING Bank to get a personalized Windows 365 Cloud PC with Copilot – on any device.
And our SIEM Microsoft Sentinel now has more than 25,000 customers and revenue surpassed a $1 billion annual run rate.
And customers in every industry like Booz Allen Hamilton, Grant Thornton, and MetLife use our end-to-end solutions to protect their environments.
More broadly, we continue to see record engagement and knowledge- sharing on the platform.
We now have more than 450 million newsletter subscriptions globally, up 3X year-over-year.
Premium subscription sign-ups were up 55% year-over- year.
Already, with Game Pass, we’re redefining how games are distributed, played, and discovered.
Nearly half of hours played have been on PC, and on launch day, we set a record for the most Game Pass subscriptions added on a single day ever.
We will have 13 billion dollar-plus franchises – from Candy Crush, Diablo, and Halo, to Warcraft, Elder Scrolls, and Gears of War.
We saw healthy renewals, particularly in Microsoft 365 E5, and growth of new business continued to be moderated for standalone products sold outside the Microsoft 365 suite.
In Azure, as expected, the optimization trends were similar to Q4.
Higher than expected AI consumption contributed to revenue growth in Azure.
Commercial bookings increased 14% and 17% in constant currency, in line with expectations, primarily driven by strong execution across our core annuity sales motions with continued growth in the number of $10 million- dollar-plus contracts for both Azure and Microsoft 365.
Microsoft Cloud revenue was $31.8 billion and grew 24% and 23% in constant currency, ahead of expectations.
Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased slightly year-over-year to 73%, a point better than expected primarily driven by improvement in Azure.
Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate for useful lives, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased roughly 2 points driven by the improvement just mentioned in Azure as well as Office 365, partially offset by the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand.
Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased roughly 3 points driven by the improvement in Azure and Office 365, as well as sales mix shift to higher margin businesses.
Operating expense growth was driven by marketing, LinkedIn, and cloud engineering, partially offset by Devices.
Revenue from Productivity and Business Processes was $18.6 billion and grew 13% and 12% in constant currency, ahead of expectations driven by better-than-expected results in Office 365 commercial and LinkedIn.
Office 365 commercial revenue increased 18% and 17% in constant currency, slightly better than expected with a bit more in-period revenue recognition while billings remained relatively in line with expectations.
Paid Office 365 commercial seats grew 10% year-over-year with installed base expansion across all customer segments.
Office commercial licensing declined 17%, in line with the continued customer shift to cloud offerings.
Office consumer revenue increased 3% and 4% in constant currency with continued momentum in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, which grew 18% to 76.7 million.
Dynamics revenue grew 22% and 21% in constant currency driven by Dynamics 365, which grew 28% and 26% in constant currency with continued growth across all workloads.
Overall, server products and cloud services revenue grew 21%.
Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 29% and 28% in constant currency, including roughly 3 points from AI services.
In our on-premises server business, revenue increased 2%, ahead of expectations driven primarily by demand in advance of Windows Server 2012 end of support.
Windows commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 8% driven by demand for Microsoft 365 E5.
And in Gaming, revenue increased 9% and 8% in constant currency, ahead of expectations driven by better-than-expected subscriber growth in Xbox Game Pass as well as first-party content, primarily due to the Starfield launch.
Xbox content and services revenue increased 13% and 12% in constant currency and Xbox hardware revenue declined 7% and 8% in constant currency.
Capital expenditures including finance leases were $11.2 billion to support cloud demand, including investments to scale our AI infrastructure.
The net impact includes adjusting for the movement of Activision content from our prior relationship as a third-party partner to first-party.
Excluding the impact from the accounting estimate change, Q2 cloud gross margin percentage will be up roughly 1 point primarily driven by improvement in Azure and Office 365, partially offset by the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand.
We expect capital expenditures to increase sequentially on a dollar basis driven by investments in our cloud and AI infrastructure.
As a reminder, there can be normal quarterly spend variability in the timing of our cloud infrastructure buildout.
In Office Commercial, revenue growth will again be driven by Office 365 with seat growth across customer segments and ARPU growth thru E5.
We expect Office 365 revenue growth to be roughly 16% in constant currency.
We’re excited for Microsoft 365 Copilot general availability on November 1 and expect the related revenue to grow gradually over time.
In our on- premises business, we expect revenue to decline in the mid to high teens.
In Office consumer, we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits, driven by Microsoft 365 subscriptions.
And in Dynamics, we expect revenue growth in the high teens driven by Dynamics 365.
For Intelligent Cloud we expect revenue to grow between 17 and 18%, or $25.1 to $25.4 billion US dollars.
Revenue will continue to be driven by Azure which, as a reminder, can have quarterly variability primarily from our per-user business and from in- period revenue recognition depending on the mix of contracts.
In Azure, we expect revenue growth to be 26% to 27% in constant currency with increasing contribution from AI.
Growth continues to be driven by Azure consumption business and we expect the trends from Q1 to continue into Q2.
Our per-user business should continue to benefit from Microsoft 365 suite momentum, though we expect continued moderation in seat growth rates given the size of the installed base.
For H2, assuming the optimization and new workload trends continue and with the growing contribution from AI, we expect Azure revenue growth in constant currency to remain roughly stable compared to Q2.
In our on-premises server business, we expect revenue growth to be roughly flat with continued hybrid demand, particularly from licenses running in multi-cloud environments.
Now to More Personal Computing, which includes the net impact from the Activision acquisition.
In Windows commercial products and cloud services, customer demand for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security solutions should drive revenue growth in the low to mid-teens.
Growth should be driven by volume strength, supported by Edge browser share gains and increasing Bing engagement, as we expect the advertising spend environment to be similar to Q1.
This includes roughly 35 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition, which as a reminder includes adjusting for the third-party to first-party content change noted earlier.
We expect Xbox content and services revenue growth in the mid to high 50s, driven by roughly 50 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition.
In closing, with our strong start to FY24, I am confident that as a team, we will continue to deliver healthy growth in the year ahead driven by our leadership in commercial cloud and our commitment to lead the AI platform wave.
If you just take Azure and try to characterize where’s the growth for Azure coming from, or what sort of drivers for Azure numbers, there are three things all happening in parallel.
Once we announced that the Oracle databases are going to be available on Azure, we saw a bunch of unlock from new customers who have a significant Oracle estate that have not yet moved to the cloud, because they needed to rendezvous with the rest of the app estate in one single cloud.
In some sense, even the financial services sector, for example, is a good place where there’s a lot of Oracle that still needs to move to the cloud.
And the third thing is, for us, that’s unique and different is new workload starts around AI.
Obviously again, this is a new product that’s going to go through the enterprise adoption cycle.
It speaks to making sure that customers are getting a very quick return on value, real productivity improvement, real savings so that when we’re asking at renewal or talking about E5 upgrades or talking about AI services, that those come with real promises of high value scenarios.
And it speaks to, I think, some of the improvements we’re making in Azure and even Microsoft 365 gross margins, even in the core of the commercial cloud.
And although you’re right, our operating expense comparables in H2 get more challenging than in H1, we’re really focused on making sure that every dollar we put and commit is back to the priorities we talked about, which is commercial cloud leadership, and leading the AI way.
And while you discuss higher utilization, and more GPUs and health, has the fact that Microsoft has a full AI dev stack copilot reference architecture and plug-in architecture been a meaningful factor, not just from a revenue perspective, but also even potentially from a margin perspective?
But the thing is, we have scale leverage of one large model that was trained and one large model that’s being used for inference across all our first- party SaaS app, as well as our API in our Azure AI Service.
It’s all one tech stack up and down, Microsoft’s portfolio.
Whether it’s in finance, or in sales, flight by roles, we’re seeing productivity gains like we saw with developers in GitHub Copilot.
Congrats on the 28% constant currency Azure growth.
Is this a function of perhaps continued core ex-AI Azure spend optimization continuing or maybe even getting slightly worse?
There, obviously, were some quarters where it was more accelerated, but that is a pattern that is and has been a fundamental part of having customers both make new room for new workload adoption and continue to build new capabilities.
And at the scale we’re talking about, being able to have stability in our Azure business does mean that we will have a lot of new workload starts.
And while obviously, it’s slowed a bit, to your point, I think the fact that we’re still able to add seats at this level speaks to the broadening nature of what Microsoft 365 means.
And we look and say, how many people, when you expand what Microsoft 365 means, whether it’s security, or it means analytics, or it means Teams – it means lots of things in an expanding definition – it applies to more types of workers.
One thing that really stood out to me was the Intelligent Cloud segment operating margins.
Was there a one-time tailwind here that helps, or are you at the point where Azure has got to come to this scale where Microsoft could sustain high margins, even with an ambitious AI investment cycle?
Number one, the Azure revenue growth and the stability we’re seeing in it absolutely is a health operating leverage.
The second component of that is in our core Azure business, the team continues to deliver thoughtful gross margin improvement across both technical, decision software implementations.
And then, of course, on operating expenses, there’s been a good focus on continuing even within that segment to make sure we’re focusing that work on leading in the AI transition with Azure.
Amy, the Microsoft Cloud gross margin’s up to two points year over year, excluding the useful life change, a little more improvement than we’ve seen in some time.
On our core business, the core Azure business, the core Office 365, M365 business, Dynamics business, they continue to deliver gross margin year- over-year improvements in the core.
In addition, what Satya mentioned earlier in a question, and I just want to take every chance to reiterate it, if you have a consistent infrastructure, from the platform all the way up through its layers, with every capital dollar we spend, if we optimize revenue against it, we will have great leverage, because wherever demand shows up in the layers, whether it’s at the SaaS layer, whether it’s at the infrastructure layer, whether it’s for training workloads, we’re able to quickly put our infrastructure to work generating revenue – or on our Bing workloads.