So we believe that by the time this kicks in a year from now, that a lot of the pieces will be in place in terms of driving more advertising revenue, more distribution revenue, moving to digital.
You've got – obviously brought in Hulu, now you're adding news, a lot of sports, ESPN coming in, you've added the international NBA rights to the product overseas.
And in your mind, does it support both continued subscriber growth and pricing power?
Bob Iger – Chief Executive Officer, The Walt Disney Company Let me start by saying that what we've been seeing with streaming is significant success driven largely by the success of our creativity.
And when you look at what the current motion picture lineup drives in terms of value on streaming, it's profound.
So when we look across our portfolio of IP – and this includes Disney-branded, Fox-branded,2 obviously, everything that's on Hulu, programming from FX, programming from ABC, National Geographic – what we're basically seeing is we're seeing growth in consumption and the popularity of our offerings, which gives us the pricing leverage that we believe we have.
We believe that as we add these new features, like the channels that we're going to be adding later this year that – and the success of our movie slate, and I'll get into that a little bit more, that the pricing leverage that we have has actually increased.
And what I mean by that is obviously offering a wider variety of programming, which is why we're adding news, why we're adding the ESPN tile to it, while we're bundling aggressively to give consumers the ability to buy across all of our, basically, creative engines.
And when you think about not only the potential of those in box office but the potential of those to drive global streaming value, I think there's a reason to be bullish about where we're headed.
Bob, as you think about the future of content spending for Disney, especially after the NBA deal and all the content that you're just talking about now, what is the right balance of investment between sports, scripted TV and movies going forward?
And I think it's one that you'll ultimately see really blended together as our streaming platform grows over time.
And if so, can you refresh on what you're looking for in terms of marketing or content?
And then just on the Content Sales and Licensing part of the business, the press release mentioned increased sales of TV content in Content Sales/Licensing and Other as a driver of the OI performance this quarter, along with the box office, of course.
Is it the beginning of a trend toward increasing content licensing to third parties?
ESPN was up 17%.4 DTC streaming was actually up 20%.5 So certainly feeling very, very positively in that regard.
And a lot of that is a product of the fact that we have live sports and the fact that our streaming service is doing so well in terms of the IP that we have.
We also have a new capability called Disney Streaming [Entertainment] that allows us to basically sell across our platforms very effectively.
We're selling audiences rather than just selling streaming channels, which enables advertisers to more effectively target the audiences that they're seeking.
The things that we consider core IP to the company, we don't license.
5 Refers to Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer advertising revenue.
In particular, our expectations regarding DTC profitability, subscriber levels and ARPU are built on certain assumptions based on the future strength of our content slate; churn expectations; the financial impact of the Disney+ ad tier and ESPN Flagship; pricing decisions; bundling and availability of our other streaming services on Disney+; technological advances and paid sharing efforts; our ability to continue to rationalize costs while preserving revenue; and macroeconomic conditions, all of which, while based on extensive internal analysis as well as recent experience, provide a layer of uncertainty in our outlook.