For more information on those risks, please review today's earnings release and Adobe's SEC filings.
Adobe had an outstanding quarter, achieving revenue of $5.31 billion, representing 11% year-over-year growth.
Our success is driven by growing customer value through an innovative product roadmap.
The advances we are delivering across Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience Cloud are enabling us to attract an expanding universe of users.
Everyone from creators, communicators, students, entrepreneurs and businesses of all sizes are using our products to unleash their creativity, accelerate document productivity and power their digital businesses.
3 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q2 2024 Earnings Call 13-Jun-2024 In Creative Cloud, we've invested in training our Firefly family of creative generative AI models with a proprietary data set and delivering AI functionality within our flagship products, including Photoshop, Illustrator, Lightroom and Premiere.
We're reimagining creativity for a broader set of customers by delivering Adobe Express as an AI-first application across the web and mobile surfaces.
At the end of May, we celebrated the five-year anniversary of Adobe Experience Platform, which we conceived and built from scratch and which is on track to be the next billion-dollar business in our Digital Experience portfolio.
With Adobe GenStudio, we're bringing together products across our clouds, including Creative Cloud, Adobe Experience Manager, Workfront, Adobe Journey Optimizer and Customer Journey Analytics as well as Adobe Express for Business to address the massive content supply chain opportunity.
Our approach to empower marketers to quickly plan, create, manage, activate and measure on-brand content is resonating with customers and validating our leadership across data, content and journeys to deliver personalized experiences at scale.
We're driving strong usage, value and demand for our AI solutions across all customer segments and seeing early success monetizing new AI technologies across our Digital Media and Digital Experience businesses.
Given this rich product roadmap, focus on execution and customer demand in the first half of the year, we're pleased to raise our annual Digital Media net new ARR, Digital Experience subscription revenue, and EPS targets.
In Q2, we achieved net new Digital Media ARR of $487 million and revenue of $3.91 billion, which grew 12% year-over-year.
We continue to see steady growth in monthly active users of our Document Cloud solutions, including Acrobat Reader, Acrobat Standard and Pro, and our signature, share and review workflows across mobile, web and desktop.
In Q2, we achieved Document Cloud revenue of $782 million, growing 19% year-over-year.
We added $165 million of net new Document Cloud ARR, which was a Q2 record, with year-over-year ending ARR growth of 24% in constant currency.
Free monthly active users of Acrobat Web grew over 60% year-over-year, as a result of link sharing and our Microsoft Edge and Google Chrome extensions.
Strong growth in the SMB segment for our Teams offering, driven by a combination of seat expansion and new account wins.
Turning to Creative Cloud, creative professionals are leading the global charge to meet the ever-increasing demand for engaging content across a variety of platforms and channels.
Enterprises rely on creative professionals to produce differentiated content to drive increasingly personalized marketing campaigns.
Solopreneurs and small businesses need to stand out in a crowded digital landscape with engaging videos and designs.
Creative Cloud, Express and Firefly Services are uniquely positioned to catalyze this opportunity for everyone, by leveraging the promise of generative AI.
Our Creative Cloud flagship applications continue to release new features that are significantly improving user onboarding, while simultaneously delivering an unprecedented level of power and precision.
The platform makes API calls and model customization available to developers, accessible through low code/no-code tools and integrates with our Experience Cloud products.
This allows us to monetize the volume of content being created through automation services.
The increasing availability of Firefly in Creative Cloud, Express, Firefly Services and the web app is giving us opportunities to access more new users, provide more value to existing users and monetize content automation.
Other business highlights include the launch of Express for Business, including support for brand controls and template locking, Firefly custom models, bulk creation and generation of variations, presentation and print capabilities, and workflows with Photoshop, Illustrator and Experience Cloud.
The release of the Premiere beta, with new audio workflows driving strong usage.
Key enterprise customer wins include Crédit Agricole, FedEx, Infosys, Rakuten, Ralph Lauren, Samsung, Schneider Electric and Volvo.
We're excited about the accelerating pace of innovation across the Digital Media business and pleased with the adoption of AI functionality as well as its early monetization across Document Cloud and Creative Cloud, including our flagship applications, Firefly Services and Express.
In Q2, we achieved Experience Cloud revenue of $1.33 billion.
Subscription revenue was $1.2 billion, representing 13% year-over-year growth.
When we introduced Adobe Experience Platform five years ago, it was a revolutionary approach to address customer data and journeys.
Today, we are the number one digital experience platform, and AEP with native apps is well on its way to becoming a billion-dollar business.
We're now transforming the content supply chain for enterprises with Adobe GenStudio, enabling them to produce content at scale, leveraging generative AI through native integrations with Firefly Services and Adobe Express for Business.
Marriott International is a great example of a customer that's expanded its decade-long relationship with Adobe and turned to Adobe Experience Cloud to orchestrate highly personalized guest experiences across online reservations and the Marriott Bonvoy mobile app.
Other business highlights include continued momentum with AEP and native applications growing subscription revenue 60% year-over-year in Q2.
AEP innovations announced at Summit include Adobe Journey Optimizer B2B Edition, a new application for B2B customers built on AEP to orchestrate account-specific buying-group journeys; Federated Audience Composition which enables enterprises to minimize data copy and generate audiences directly from their enterprise data warehouses; and Real-Time CDP Collaboration, a new clean room application for brands and publishers to collaborate in a privacy-safe way to discover, reach and measure their high-value audiences in a world without third-party cookies.
GenStudio innovations to address enterprise content supply chain needs across Workflow & Planning, Creation & Production, Asset Management, Delivery & Activation, and Reporting & Insights.
Key customer wins include Amazon, British Telecom, Comcast, Mercedes-Benz, Maruti Suzuki, Nationwide Building Society, Novo Nordisk, ServiceNow, Stellantis, Ulta Beauty and US Department of the Treasury.
We have enabled our vibrant partner ecosystem of system integrators and agencies to deliver advisory and implementation services across our product portfolio.
Our category-leading solutions, robust pipeline and tremendous scale position us to drive strong growth in the second half, and we are raising our subscription revenue target for the year.
Today, I'll start by summarizing Adobe's performance in Q2 fiscal 2024, highlighting growth drivers across our businesses, and I'll finish with financial targets.
In Q2, Adobe delivered strong top line growth and 7 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q2 2024 Earnings Call 13-Jun-2024 industry-leading profitability, while accelerating the pace of innovations we're delivering to market across Document Cloud, Creative Cloud and Experience Cloud.
In the quarter, Adobe achieved record revenue of $5.31 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth, or 11% in constant currency, with strength across all three clouds.
This performance stems from the diversification of Adobe's business, across our market-leading products, business models, customer segments and geographies.
Second quarter business and financial highlights included GAAP diluted earnings per share of $3.49 and non- GAAP diluted earnings per share of $4.48; Digital Media revenue of $3.91 billion; net new Digital Media ARR of $487 million; Digital Experience revenue of $1.33 billion; cash flows from operations of $1.94 billion; and RPO of $17.86 billion exiting the quarter.
In our Digital Media segment, we achieved Q2 revenue of $3.91 billion, which represents 11% year-over-year growth, or 12% in constant currency.
Adobe achieved Document Cloud revenue of $782 million, which represents 19% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
We added $165 million of net new Document Cloud ARR, which was a record for a Q2.
Q2 Document Cloud growth drivers included demand for Acrobat subscriptions across all customer segments and geographies; new user acquisition resulting from increasing Reader MAU; a great start monetizing AI Assistant through our digital channel; strong usage and engagement from Acrobat Web as well as through our Chrome and Edge partnerships, which are driving free-to-paid conversion; growing Teams subscription units sold to SMBs, both through adobe.com and our reseller channel; and strength in our enterprise solutions, demonstrating the importance of PDF as a source of unstructured data in business workflows.
We achieved Creative revenue of $3.13 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth, or 11% in constant currency.
We added $322 million of net new Creative ARR in the quarter.
Q2 Creative growth drivers included new subscriptions for Creative Cloud All Apps, with particular strength in digital acquisition on adobe.com, with multiple product releases during the quarter driving customer engagement and demand; strong growth of single apps, including in imaging, photography, design and Stock; accelerating customer interest and usage for our new Express mobile and Express for Business offerings; strong renewals as customers migrate to higher-value, higher ARPU Creative Cloud plans that include Firefly entitlements; continued subscription unit growth, with particular strength in emerging markets; and strength from SMBs adopting our Team offering, as well as in the enterprise segment with ETLA adoption.
We're pleased with the performance of the Creative business in the first half of the year, fueled by strong commercial subscriptions in both Q1 and Q2.
As we look at the momentum we're carrying into the back half, we expect to deliver year-over-year growth of Creative net new ARR in Q3 and Q4 and are raising our Digital Media net new ARR target for the fiscal year.
Turning to our Digital Experience segment, in Q2 we achieved revenue of $1.33 billion, which represents 9% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
Digital Experience subscription revenue was $1.20 billion, growing 13% year-over-year as reported and in constant currency.
Q2 Digital Experience growth drivers included subscription revenue strength from transformational accounts; market leadership with AEP and native applications, with subscription revenue growing 60% year-over-year; 8 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2024 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q2 2024 Earnings Call 13-Jun-2024 additional subscription revenue strength across the Data Insights & Audiences and Customer Journey categories; and accelerated adoption of our AEM and Workfront solutions from businesses looking to solve their content supply chain challenges.
For Q3, we're targeting total Adobe revenue of $5.33 billion to $5.38 billion; Digital Media net new ARR of approximately $460 million; Digital Media segment revenue of $3.95 billion to $3.98 billion; Digital Experience segment revenue of $1.325 billion to $1.345 billion; Digital Experience subscription revenue of $1.20 billion to $1.22 billion; tax rate of approximately 18% on a GAAP basis and 18.5% on a non-GAAP basis; GAAP earnings per share of $3.45 to $3.50; and non-GAAP earnings per share of $4.50 to $4.55.
For fiscal 2024, given our first half performance, we are now targeting total Adobe revenue of $21.40 billion to $21.50 billion; Digital Media net new ARR of approximately $1.95 billion; Digital Media segment revenue of $15.80 billion to $15.85 billion; Digital Experience segment revenue of $5.325 billion to $5.375 billion; Digital Experience subscription revenue of $4.775 billion to $4.825 billion; tax rate of approximately 20.5% on a GAAP basis and 18.5% on a non-GAAP basis; GAAP earnings per share of $11.80 to $12.00; and non-GAAP earnings per share of $18.00 to $18.20.
Adobe's product leadership, velocity of innovation, diversity of our business and financial discipline make us unique, enabling us to deliver strong top and bottom line results through dynamic market conditions.
On the Document Cloud side, a lot of that has to do with the introduction of AI Assistant and the fact that people are migrating to the higher value products.
I wanted to ask kind of just similar to Mark's question, just how much GenAI demand did you see in the quarter in terms of for sort of both the Creative Cloud portfolio and Digital Media, in creative studio as well as in GenStudio.
And how does it kind of help pick up more on the enterprise side of the business or the SMB size of the business?
We launched Firefly Services for enterprises to produce content at scale.
Sequentially, if you look at it from a route to market, digital had a very strong quarter as it relates to what we did on adobe.com.
I think from a macro perspective, what I think differentiates Adobe more than any other company is how differentiated and how diverse the set of products that we have and, again, from individual consumers all the way to enterprises, our products are mission critical.
There are clearly just so many layers to the Firefly monetization story, but I think one theme that's coming out a little bit in this call and particularly interesting route to monetize is just the increased engagement that Firefly helps drive in your flagship products, right, where I think it will be closer to the interfaces, right?
We're seeing a lot of adoption and usage of Express in the market.
Similarly, though, this is having the same effect in our core creative products as well, right?
So, there are a lot of different mechanisms that we see, but by far the strongest is going to be the fact that we are seeing people like in Creative Cloud, migrating to the higher-priced plans because they include Firefly.
For starters, there's a lot of buzz of Express here at Adobe coming off the event we just had earlier this week, but it's really based on the fact that the innovation in Express is on a tear, right?
That's the vision that we have and I think it's an opportunity for us to really leap forward in terms of what we can do on the web and mobile at Adobe.
We've been ramping up what we're doing in digital and adobe.com journeys.
We obviously have been embedding it into Creative Cloud workflows and also, as we showed at Summit with Anil, we've embedded it into our Experience Cloud workflows as well.
In addition to all of that, we're now unleashing our inside sales force to target the small/medium businesses.
Our education teams are really gearing up for the back-to-school launch for K-12 and higher ed and our field and enterprise sales now have Express for Business, and we're doing all this globally, right?
Adobe home is now sort of increasingly the way that we're driving a lot of people to get aware of our new products.
I mean the commerce team that we have at Adobe that understands what the segments are and how for those particular segments we can attract people that's great.
And I think the beautiful part about AI is that since they need access to the cloud to get all of the AI functionality, emerging market growth has been really strong for us.
In particular on what gives you guys the confidence to see a return to year-on-year growth in Creative Cloud net new ARR?
But more importantly, to your point, the year-over-year complexities are now behind us and we're very excited about the momentum of the first half and how it sets us up for the second half, frankly across both Document Cloud and Creative Cloud.
We're seeing Express starting to perform well in terms of bringing a lot of new users into the franchise across mobile and web.
Because of the Firefly capabilities, we're even seeing this in enterprises where people are moving up to the highest versions of Creative Cloud, which is what were called Creative Cloud Enterprise 4 because they get more access to features beyond just generation.
They have more collaborative capabilities beyond just kind of sharing via email and we're starting to see that create a nice momentum and upgrade cycles in the enterprise segment as well.
While still early, automation and content production is something that we're driving effectively in a lot of these accounts with Firefly Services.
So, that mix of new users, existing user migration, and also the new offerings that we have in market are driving that growth formula that we talked about which is now P times Q plus V for value with these automation services.
It seems like with all the progress you've made embedding Firefly across the key flagship products and the engagement levels that you're seeing, we should start to see perhaps some ramp in that generative credit component to your pricing.
Would you expect to start to see that coming in or should we look to other services like the video capabilities that you're going to be launching shortly as the key catalyst there?
Anil, it's good to hear AEP is on track to become the next billion-dollar business for Adobe.
Can you expand on the journey and drivers that get you there and in particular, how important are cloud migrations and how do you see AEP AI Assistant perhaps accelerating the journey to a billion?
And for us, since we're focused on personalization scale which is really built around the AEP platform, we're the largest provider in the space and we're growing faster than any of our peers and we're the number one Digital Experience platform as a result.
One, it's really making it easier for customers to deploy use cases.
So, as there is more usage, it'll help drive more consumption and help drive growth in terms of number of profiles, number of users and we see it helping us grow towards that billion-dollar business.
But with every quarter that Adobe is executing on this path, where do you stand with the question that we do get from investors?
And so, net-net, I am absolutely betting on the fact that five years from now, there'll be more people saying, I'm using creative tools to accomplish what I want and there'll be more marketers saying, I can now, with the agility that I need, truly deliver marketing campaign and an audience that's incredibly more specific than I could in the past.
Right before this meeting, I was in a meeting with our CMO and, well, sometimes it's hard to tell if he's wearing the CMO or CEO hat, but CMO this time and we were reviewing a full- funnel campaign that we're planning on launching later this year and exactly, as Shantanu mentioned earlier, we saw benefits in terms of cost of the campaign, faster time to market for the campaign, and the amount of content that we can create to personalize that campaign, and that is one of those things that we've been doing more and more around our DDOM, which has actually been very productive for us as you can see this quarter and what we're pitching to other customers.
So, we've been working with a – we listed some of the customers earlier, but we've been working with a long list of customers on everything from accelerating the content creation for social, accelerating content creation for regional, and then increasing the number of amount of content that's created for increased personalization, which then of course flows into all of the Experience Cloud products that Anil's working on to get targeted better.
I mean, if you take a step back also, every single ad company right now will tell you that the more variants that you provide, the better your chances are of appropriately getting an uplift for your media spend.
All of the agency companies are companies that have actually even publicly said how GenStudio is something that they have embraced, but even the large media companies, because the media companies are certainly interested in understanding how all of this GenAI could be used to automate as well as accelerate the amount of content that they can produce.