As you will recall, a few quarters ago, I said that while many believe that Spotify has a great product, we needed to prove that we also could be a great business.
We have expanded our subscription offerings to consumers who might be looking for different types of content.
By introducing new subscription plans, we are successfully giving subscribers even more listening choices – with options like the Audiobooks Access and Basic tiers.
I attribute this to the tremendous value we’ve added to our service over the last several years.
Our subscribers now get access to 250,000 audiobooks, more than 6 million podcasts and of course, pretty much the world’s entire music catalog…in one experience.
In the US today, access to all of this content would cost a user approximately $26, significantly more than a Spotify subscription.
As a reminder, the easiest way to understand Spotify’s business is through the lens of our Free and Paid segments.
Our paid/subscription business is primarily anchored in developed markets, where growth today is driven by net subscriber additions and strategic pricing.
On the other hand, the growth of our Free/ad-supported segment is focused today on developing markets, where we see potential to convert these users into subscribers, but on a much longer time horizon.
So looking at where we are today, the changing market dynamics play a role in how we think about our user acquisition strategy.
And while we’ve talked about the importance of reinvesting in marketing to attract new users to Spotify, we are only going to spend money to attract listeners if it meets our ROI expectations.
In these markets, paid subscriptions aren’t showing signs of slowing down, even from historically high levels.
On the flip side, we have significant potential to attract a large number of new users in developing markets.
However these users can be a little more inconsistent – engagement looks different in these markets, as do the channels to acquire them and conversion to paid can be slower.
Second, we are prioritizing enhancements in our free product pipeline that based on existing performance in certain markets, should boost engagement and retention – especially in our developing markets.
Further additional improvements will be integrated into our free experience in the coming months.
So, the users we are now acquiring, we are also retaining, which is a great leading indicator for value and future monetization.
I know the impact of MAU on our subscriber growth will be top of mind for some of you, so I want to discuss what I think this means in the short to mid-term.
Historically, our conversion funnel was quite straightforward: a listener would come in as a free user and, over time, convert to our standard premium tier.
This process has evolved given the bifurcation between developed and developing markets and the increased number of subscription options we now offer.
This means the relationship from free to paid is no longer a one-size-fits-all scenario and we are less dependent on new free users to fuel our revenue growth in the short to mid term.
Take for example, our developed markets – with both the widespread awareness of our offerings and the strong affinity for Spotify’s products, we see many users subscribing directly to our paid tiers without any trial period.
And there are many ways to grow Spotify today – it’s not a linear path dependent on any one metric.
Q2 marked another strong quarter for the business, led by robust subscriber trends, improving monetization and record strength across all of our profitability metrics.
We added 7 million net new Subscribers in the quarter, which was 1 million better than forecast.
As you’re well aware, there are many components that can move our Gross Margin, and Q2’s outperformance was driven primarily by music content cost favorability and marketplace.
In terms of our MAU growth outlook, as Daniel mentioned, we are continuing to make adjustments to our marketing activities and also exploring potential product enhancements, both of which we anticipate will contribute to improving MAU net add levels as we progress through the back half of the year.
With respect to price increases and subscriber growth in Q3, our data continues to show that historical price increases have had minimal impacts on growth.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ224.
If we can do this, even more great things are in store for Spotify.