DECEMBER 11, 2024 / 10:00PM, ADBE.OQ - Q4 2024 Adobe Inc Earnings Call CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS Steven Day Adobe Inc - CFO, Digital Experience Business, Interim Head of IR Shantanu Narayen Adobe Inc - Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer David Wadhwani Adobe Inc - President - Digital Media Business Anil Chakravarthy Adobe Inc - President - Digital Experience Business Daniel Durn Adobe Inc - Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President - Finance, Technology Services and Operations CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS Michael Turrin Wells Fargo Securities, LLC - Analyst Alex Zukin Wolfe Research - Analyst Kirk Materne EVERCORE ISI - Analyst Keith Weiss Morgan Stanley - Analyst Keith Bachman BMO Capital Markets - Analyst Brad Sills BofA Global Research - Analyst Jay Vleeschhouwer Griffin Securities, Inc. - Analyst PRESENTATION Operator Good day, and welcome to the Q4 and FY24 Adobe Earnings Conference Call.
For more information on those risks, please review today's earnings release and Adobe's SEC filings.
In our Digital Media business, we delivered record net new ARR of $578 million, and our Digital Experience business achieved subscription revenue of $1.27 billion, representing 12% year-over-year growth.
We achieved record revenue of $21.51 billion, representing 11% year-over-year growth.
We had several new milestones with our AI innovations, enabling us to add more than $2 billion in Digital Media net new ARR and surpass $1 billion in the ending book of business for Adobe Experience Platform and native apps.
The Digital Experience business crossed $5 billion in revenue, making us one of the mission-critical providers of marketing technology in the world.
We reimagine creativity and productivity for a broader set of customers with Adobe Express, the quick and easy create anything app.
The deep integration of Firefly across our flagship applications in Creative Cloud, Document Cloud, and Experience Cloud is driving record customer adoption and usage.
We've successfully scaled Adobe Experience Platform and native apps to deliver the fundamental infrastructure required for customer engagement.
We set the stage to drive an AI content revolution by bringing content and data together in Adobe GenStudio, integrating high-velocity creative expression with enterprise activation.
The release of Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing integrates Creative Cloud, Express, and Experience Cloud and extends our end-to-end content supply chain solution, empowering freelancers, agencies, and enterprises to accelerate the delivery of content, advertising and marketing campaigns.
In Q4, we achieved net new Digital Media ARR of $578 million and revenue of $4.15 billion, which grew 12% year-over-year, fueled by innovation in both our Creative and Document businesses.
We ended the year with just over $2 billion of net new Digital Media ARR for the first time ever as a result of accelerated product innovation, record traffic to Adobe.com and engagement on social and mobile, as well as increasing value for enterprise customers through Firefly Services and GenStudio, which bring together our Creative and Experience Clouds.
In Q4, we achieved Document Cloud revenue of $843 million, growing 17% year-over-year.
We set a record for net new Document Cloud ARR of $173 million, with ending ARR of $3.48 billion, growing 23% year-over-year.
Other highlights include: continued growth of monthly active users, which grew over 25% year-over-year, surpassing 650 million paid and free users; strong top of funnel momentum through Acrobat Web with monthly active users up nearly 50% year-over-year; strength in Acrobat Pro single app in both Document Cloud and Creative Cloud offerings; a great back-to-school season with a new AI Assistant offering in education for students; key enterprise customer wins include Abbott Laboratories, BWI GmbH, Defense Information Systems Agency, Kaiser Permanente, Novo Nordisk, Truist, US Cellular, and the US Department of State.
Creative Cloud also had a strong year as demand for content continues to grow across mobile, desktop, and streaming platforms.
Adobe MAX, the Premier Creativity Conference showcased our FY24 innovation and drove over 0.5 billion video views across all channels.
These models are incredibly powerful on their own and their deep integration into our tools like Lightroom, Photoshop, Premiere, InDesign, and Express have brought incredible value to millions of creative professionals around the world.
We have brought our Creative and Experience Clouds together through the introduction of Firefly Services and GenStudio, addressing the growing need for scaled content production in enterprises.
Other highlights include adoption of Adobe Express by approximately 4,000 businesses in the quarter and an 84% year-over-year increase in the number of students with access to Express Premium as part of this year's back-to-school season.
Adobe Express saw a strong ecosystem growth with over 180 plug-ins available in the Express Marketplace and integrations with leading social, productivity, and collaboration apps like ChatGPT, Google, Slack, Wix, Box, HubSpot, and Webflow, significantly increasing our customer reach.
DECEMBER 11, 2024 / 10:00PM, ADBE.OQ - Q4 2024 Adobe Inc Earnings Call Firefly Services adoption continued to ramp as enterprises such as Pepsi and Tapestry use it to scale content production, given the robust APIs and ease of creating custom models that are designed to be commercially safe.
Key enterprise customer wins include Alphabet, American Express, Coca-Cola, Johnson & Johnson, LVMH, Nestle, Procter & Gamble, T-Mobile and the US Department of Defense.
Our AI product releases and business evolution in FY24 has set the stage for another strong year ahead as we expand to new audiences, deliver more value to existing users, and increasingly integrate our Digital Media and Digital Experience clouds to create differentiated business solutions.
We will do this by: accelerating the adoption of freemium offers, including Express, Lightroom, and Acrobat on Web and Mobile as well as expanding access to Acrobat AI Assistant, which delivered strong financial performance in FY24.
Growing our core creative business by continuing to expand our AI innovations in our flagship applications as well as bringing them to web and mobile.
This will allow us to monetize new users, provide additional value to existing customers, and increase ARPU.
And further accelerating Firefly Services, which saw significant demand in FY24 by integrating it into GenStudio to provide enterprises with solutions to exponentially scale their content production capabilities with AI.
Anil Chakravarthy - Adobe Inc - President - Digital Experience Business Thanks, David.
The Experience Cloud business had a strong close to the year, achieving revenue of $1.4 billion for the quarter and a record $5.37 billion in revenue in fiscal 2024.
Subscription revenue in the quarter was $1.27 billion, representing 12% year-over-year growth.
The book of business for Adobe Experience Platform and native apps -- real-time CDP, Customer Journey Analytics and Journey Optimizer -- surpassed $1 billion in the quarter, with 48 of the Fortune 100 companies now leveraging these solutions.
Both B2B and B2C companies are selecting Adobe as their strategic technology partner to accelerate customer acquisition, engagement and retention.
Our leading solutions, spanning content, data and customer journeys empower businesses to drive topline growth while simultaneously delivering productivity gains.
We are transforming the content supply chain for enterprises with Adobe GenStudio, which natively integrates multiple Adobe applications across Creative Cloud and Experience Cloud, including Express, Firefly, Workfront, Experience Manager, Customer Journey Analytics, and Journey Optimizer.
GenStudio enables agencies and enterprises to unlock new levels of creativity and efficiency across content creation and production, workflow and planning, asset management, delivery and activation and reporting and insights.
Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing is a great addition to the GenStudio portfolio, offering an integrated application to create paid social ads, display ads, banners, and marketing e-mails by leveraging preapproved on-brand content.
DECEMBER 11, 2024 / 10:00PM, ADBE.OQ - Q4 2024 Adobe Inc Earnings Call We are seeing strong customer demand for Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing since its general availability at MAX.
GenStudio is the answer to address how marketing is going to transform in the era of AI for CMOs, CIOs, and CFOs.
Other highlights include expanded partnership with Amazon to make Adobe Experience Platform available on Amazon Web Services and extend our leadership across public clouds.
Enterprises will soon be able to access the full power of AEP and native apps on AWS.
Integration partnerships with Google's Campaign Manager 360, Meta, Microsoft Advertising, Snap, and TikTok, offering marketing teams a holistic view of campaign performance directly in Adobe GenStudio to optimize the ROI of their ad spend.
AI innovations delivered in the premium tiers and add-ons helped us close our largest bookings quarter ever, with key global customer wins including Air Canada, Allianz, American Express, Bank of America, BMW, Centene, CIBC, Cisco, Disney, Fanatics, Gap, GM, JPMorgan Chase, PayPal, Samsung, Tesco, and Wells Fargo.
Adobe Digital Insights, which analyzes trillions of data points, reported that both Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales hit record highs of $10.8 billion and $13.3 billion, jumping 10.2% and 7.3% from last year, respectively.
With the availability of our new offerings in FY25, Adobe has a unique opportunity to capitalize on the breadth of these solutions to further optimize our integrated go-to-market field organization.
We're expanding our enterprise go-to-market teams to sell these integrated solutions that cut across Digital Media and Digital Experience globally under the new GenStudio umbrella.
New AI releases, including Express, Acrobat AI Assistant, Firefly Services, DX premium tiers, and GenStudio for Performance Marketing have expanded the portfolio of products, driving proliferation and meaningful GenAI monetization.
In FY24, Adobe achieved record revenue of $21.51 billion, which represents 11% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
FY24 business and financial highlights included: Digital Media revenue of $15.86 billion; net new Digital Media ARR of $2.00 billion; Digital Experience revenue of $5.37 billion; cash flows from operations of $8.06 billion; RPO of $19.96 billion exiting the year; and repurchasing approximately 17.5 million shares of our stock during the year.
DECEMBER 11, 2024 / 10:00PM, ADBE.OQ - Q4 2024 Adobe Inc Earnings Call In the fourth quarter of FY24, Adobe achieved revenue of $5.61 billion, which represents 11% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
Q4 business and financial highlights included: Digital Media revenue of $4.15 billion; net new Digital Media ARR of $578 million; Digital Experience revenue of $1.40 billion; cash flows from operations of $2.92 billion; and added $1.82 billion to RPO in the quarter.
In our Digital Media segment, we achieved Q4 revenue of $4.15 billion, which represents 12% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
We exited the quarter with $17.33 billion of Digital Media ARR, growing our ending ARR book of business 13% year-over-year in constant currency.
Adobe achieved Document Cloud revenue of $843 million, which represents 17% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
In the quarter, we added $173 million of net new Document Cloud ARR, growing our ending ARR book of business 23% year-over-year in constant currency.
Fourth quarter Document Cloud growth drivers included: strong growth across Reader and Acrobat on web and mobile and extensions such as Edge and Chrome; Acrobat subscription demand across all customer segments, routes to market and geographies; accelerated adoption and monetization of AI Assistant driven by product enhancements and delivery of French and German language support; and year-end seasonal strength in the enterprise.
We achieved Creative revenue of $3.30 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth or 11% in constant currency.
In the quarter, we added $405 million of net new Creative ARR, growing our ending ARR book of business 11% year-over-year in constant currency.
Fourth quarter Creative Cloud growth drivers included: strong demand for new subscriptions for Creative Cloud All Apps across individuals, teams, enterprise, and education; strength in Creative Cloud single apps for Acrobat Pro, Lightroom, and Photoshop; momentum with new subscriptions in emerging markets; demand for Adobe Express across education, SMB, and enterprises; and adoption of Firefly Services in the enterprise.
Turning to our Digital Experience segment, in Q4, we achieved revenue of $1.40 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
Digital Experience subscription revenue was $1.27 billion, growing 13% year-over-year or 12% in constant currency.
Fourth quarter Digital Experience growth drivers included: strong finish to the year with the largest ever bookings quarter and robust performance across geographies, including the US and EMEA and multiple verticals, including financial services; strong subscription revenue growth led by Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Journey Optimizer, real-time Customer Data Platform, Customer Journey Analytics and Workfront; continued strength in retention and expansion across our enterprise customers with Digital Experience solutions being leveraged by 85 of the Fortune 100 companies; momentum with AEP and native apps with FY24 ending book of business surpassing $1.0 billion and growing greater than 40% year-over-year; and strong bookings for our umbrella GenStudio solution with interest and momentum for our new GenStudio for Performance Marketing offering.
We expect an approximate $200 million headwind to FY25 revenue as a result of the effect of foreign exchange and a smaller impact of the continued move to subscriptions from perpetual offerings.
For FY25, we're targeting total Adobe revenue of $23.30 billion to $23.55 billion; Digital Media segment revenue of $17.25 billion to $17.40 billion; Digital Media ending ARR book of business growth of 11.0% year-over-year; Digital Experience segment revenue of $5.80 billion to $5.90 billion; Digital Experience subscription revenue of $5.375 billion to $5.425 billion; GAAP earnings per share of $15.80 to $16.10; and non-GAAP earnings per share of $20.20 to $20.50.
For Q1 fiscal '25, we're targeting: total Adobe revenue of $5.63 billion to $5.68 billion; Digital Media segment revenue of $4.17 billion to $4.20 billion; Digital Experience segment revenue of $1.38 billion to $1.40 billion; Digital Experience subscription revenue of $1.27 billion to $1.29 billion; GAAP earnings per share of $3.85 to $3.90; and non-GAAP earnings per share of $4.95 to $5.
At MAX, we announced a new global initiative aimed at helping 30 million next-generation learners develop AI literacy, content creation, and digital marketing skills using Adobe Express to thrive in the modern workforce, working with education partners and schools, nonprofits, and online learning platforms to provide training, certifications, and career pathways.
Our strategy to unleash creativity for all, accelerate document productivity, and power digital businesses represents a massive addressable market opportunity.
Adobe continues to build on its strong foundation of transformative innovation, category and brand leadership, financial performance, and profitable growth.
We're delivering Adobe Magic to an expanding set of global customers and executing on the massive market opportunity ahead.
Now as we introduce the Video Model, which we expect to have in market early next year, that's going to create an opportunity to further tier our Creative Cloud offerings.
And as a result, it gives us the ability to start to tier Creative Cloud more actively there.
And these have been very, very productive for them, and we are seeing this leveraged by a host of other companies for everything from localization at scale to personalization at scale to user engagement or just raw content production at scale as well.
And then anything, Dan, that we should think through, given the new guidance methodology, around seasonality or linearity for net new ARR in the Digital Media business?
Obviously, with the introduction of Express, we're seeing a lot of great growth there, whether it's through our phones channel reaching out to SMB, whether it's corporate reaching out to the mid-market, or whether it's working more closely with Anil and the DX business and the integrations we have between Express and the DX business reaching into large companies.
We've done a number of partnerships that we talked about with Box, ChatGPT, HubSpot, and others, but also our own products like Acrobat Workflows from Acrobat and Reader into Express.
So really pushing to drive more new customers into the franchise in addition to the continued growth that we're getting in our core Creative products.
Second, in terms of the core Creative products, this is where the Q -- sorry, I said it backwards, the price actually increases with core value because when we're introducing Firefly models into the mix, we get the opportunity to integrate them more into the flagship applications.
And as I mentioned earlier, with the Firefly Web application, we have the opportunity to create more tiers across the Creative products so that we can get people in the right plan for their needs.
And then lastly, the business value for customers in enterprise or corporate, that's where the value-based selling that we do along with the Digital Experience business really plays out.
Firefly Services, as I mentioned, with Gatorade, Tapestry, and a whole host of others that have come, everyone in the space is driving towards personalization of that content, and they absolutely need a scaled production and automation pipeline to generate more content.
This is something the company has honed a really great skill at over time once we bring people into the Adobe ecosystem to journey them through, the rich set of technologies and products that we have to bring them deeper into the ecosystem.
This is about how we segment the product portfolio, the value that we deliver to our customers.
David Wadhwani - Adobe Inc - President - Digital Media Business Yes.
If you look at the lower end of the market, as we have entered with Express and Lightroom, Acrobat, and by the way, the web and mobile motion for us has been productive in bringing in a lot more new users.
And there is certainly price sensitivity at that side of the market when it comes to both freemium users and also converted to paid users, and we'll continue to enable that.
When it comes to the core business, and this is the business of creative professionals, we are very focused on introducing new value.
Any color you can offer in terms of what that meant, if at all, to Creative Cloud net new ARR this quarter?
We run our promotions over a larger window of time to reflect consumer behavior, and we see a similar pattern commercially from our customers this year that we've seen in prior years.
And we hear that excitement from creative professionals, and they talk about an acceleration in the pace of innovation.
Digital Media net new ARR this quarter grew just -- or Creative Cloud grew 2%.
All this innovation, new monetization avenues, pricing going up, but the growth is going in the wrong direction.
DECEMBER 11, 2024 / 10:00PM, ADBE.OQ - Q4 2024 Adobe Inc Earnings Call went into the Creative bucket versus the Document Cloud business.
But the non-Acrobat contribution in Creative actually had more growth than what you would see if you just look at it from a Creative Cloud ARR.
And at the high end, with the Creative Pro and with the enterprise, we are seeing significant adoption of that.
And on the consumer communicator space, I think the traction that we're seeing with Express on proliferation also gives us a lot of optimism for how that part of the business is also doing well.
To the point that I think you as well as others have asked, is there opportunity in the growth agenda, not just to think about the innovation and the offerings but to make sure that as we tier these, that the pricing and the value is appropriate?
And I think you'll continue to see us, I think David mentioned that in his prepared remarks as well as Dan did, that you'll see us also have new tiered offerings that reflect that value that we're providing to the Creative pro as well as to the business segments.
Keith Bachman - BMO Capital Markets - Analyst I wanted to ask David to you, if I could, on Doc Cloud specifically.
And in addition to that, how are you thinking about leveraging the value there in terms of price, specifically within the growth of Doc Cloud.
And again, the broader question is just on the durability of Doc Cloud grew 23% over the course of the quarter in terms of ARR.
David Wadhwani - Adobe Inc - President - Digital Media Business Yes.
And that's really what is the foundation of what is driving the business, including the fact that it's the most secure platform for leveraging and accessing the content.
I think what is -- there are two things that are really the growth drivers of this business or a number of things.
I mean, monthly active users and free and paid is a key stat that we keep looking at.
The first, and David alluded to this, is if you have a video offering and that video offering, that will be a pure consumption pricing associated with it.
So that is, in effect, a consumption business as it relates to the enterprise so I think that will also continue to increase.
David Wadhwani - Adobe Inc - President - Digital Media Business Yes, so a number of things.
As we talked about, everything from Express and Lightroom and even in Acrobat on mobile for a broad-base but then also in our core Creative products, Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere.
Let's start with new users and more closer to the low end of the market.
So we see that when we invest in mobile and web, we are getting some very positive signals in terms of user adoption and user conversion rate.
And by the way, the fact that Firefly continues to be the only commercially safe model integrated into these apps does matter when it comes to, as I said, adding 4,000 new businesses.
So you'll start to see us continuing to drive more proliferation of those capabilities earlier in the user journeys, and that has been proven very productive.
But when I take a step back and think about the rhythm and flow of the business, what we're seeing on the enterprise side, winning large transformational deals, exiting the year with the largest bookings quarter ever, having premium tiers in that product portfolio, momentum around AEP and apps continuing to grow at scale.
Now when we think about content supply chain and bringing cross-cloud opportunities together that really get at meaningful pain points of customers over time.
And then we think about the innovation that we're driving through the Digital Media business, I feel really good about our ability to continue to drive the business going forward, and I'm very encouraged by what I see.
David Wadhwani - Adobe Inc - President - Digital Media Business Yes.
I think as it relates to all 3 businesses that we have, the Creative Cloud with everything that we've done around AI.
We have a lot of momentum going into the business and a really great diverse portfolio in terms of both the customers as well as our offerings.
I think much like we did with AEP and apps and data and have driven that to a billion-dollar business, I feel just the same amount of excitement with what we can do with content and AI and how we can accelerate the creation of that all the way from ideation to the multiple variations that's required.