Our powerful franchises have a multiplier effect across our entire company, providing benefits to our theme parks, cruises, consumer products, and our streaming businesses.
The theatrical success of our franchises, which contributes to our growth and improved financial performance in streaming, should also positively impact churn and engagement.
Across streaming and linear, our branded series and general entertainment programming continue to perform exceptionally well, resonating with both audiences and critics alike.
Through our extensive portfolio, our content generates more U.S. viewership in the living room than any other media company, with approximately 11% of total TV viewing in June according to Nielsen1.
Our consumption mix is also nearly equal across linear and streaming.
1 Source: Nielsen; total TV viewing is a mix of broadcast, cable, and streaming from viewing on television screens in the U.S.
Page 4 We continue to invest in our streaming technology to deliver an unparalleled experience, including for advertisers with the best advertiser technology in the streaming business globally.
Last week, we shared our strong upfront results, with overall revenue up 5% driven by sports and streaming.
More than 40% of total upfront dollars committed this year are addressable, inclusive of streaming and digital, and we also introduced a Disney Streaming Entertainment (DSE) ad offering, which matches advertising opportunities with impressions that are served across our family of streaming apps, maximizing supply against premium audiences and outcomes.
SPORTS Sports is an important value creator for the company, and we remain focused on leveraging ESPN’s enduring success as we continue ESPN’s evolution into the preeminent digital sports platform.
First is the Venu Sports joint venture, bringing together sports content from ESPN, FOX, and Warner Bros.
In December we will launch an ESPN tile on Disney+, which will serve as another access point for our sports content and allow for greater audience expansion.
We see this as a first step to bringing ESPN to Disney+ viewers, and we also continue to ready the launch of our enhanced stand-alone ESPN flagship streaming service in the fall of 2025.
Page 6 In addition to innovative digital features such as fantasy sports, enhanced statistics, betting, and e- commerce, subscribers to this new flagship service will be able to see ESPN’s full package of sports programming, including NBA and WNBA live events and programming – a key component of our recently announced 11-year rights extension with the NBA and WNBA.
Our full NBA and WNBA live event packages will ultimately be available across our networks and digital platforms, including via our MVPD partners, on our flagship service, and Venu.
Results at Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer were stronger than we anticipated this quarter, improving year over year by nearly $500 million to a modest loss of $19 million driven by growth in subscription and advertising revenue in addition to strong cost management.
As noted in the last earnings call, results in the third quarter reflect streaming rights costs for ICC at Disney+ Hotstar.
This better-than-expected performance, combined with our profitable results at ESPN+, resulted in positive profitability at our combined DTC streaming businesses5 for the first time and one quarter ahead of our previous guidance of achieving profitability in Q4.
Advertising revenue at Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer increased by 20% versus the prior year, reflecting growth across Disney+ Hotstar, Disney+ Core, and Hulu.
In Q3, our number of domestic streaming advertisers grew by more than 20% versus prior year, largely driven by automation, while programmatic revenue growth increased by over 80%.
Disney+ Core subscribers grew more than expected, with approximately 700K net adds in the third quarter.
In Q4, we expect Disney+ Core subscribers to grow modestly.
We expect Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer to be profitable in Q4 and continue to feel optimistic about the trajectory for this business, with multiple building blocks for improving margins over the coming years, including but not limited to: • Increasing pricing this fall to further align with the value we are providing to consumers • Product updates and features designed to increase engagement and reduce churn, including playlists, the ESPN tile on Disney+, and improving our recommendation engine with technology enhancements • Continuing to grow our subscriber base, including by operationalizing paid sharing Content Sales/Licensing and Other results improved by over $350 million versus the prior year, well above our guidance, primarily due to the performance of Inside Out 2.