As previously noted, we are focused on: transitioning ESPN into the preeminent digital sports platform, building streaming into a profitable growth business, reinvigorating our film studios, and turbocharging growth in our parks and experiences.
First, we announced yesterday the full suite of ESPN’s channels will now be available direct to consumer as part of a new joint venture with Fox and Warner Brothers Discovery to create a new streaming sports service, launching this fall.
And in the fall of 2025, we’ll be offering ESPN as a stand‐alone streaming option with innovative digital features, creating a one‐stop sports destination unlike anything available in the marketplace today.
We’ve improved our entertainment streaming operating income by a remarkable 86%, year over year, and remain poised to reach profitability in our combined streaming business by the end of fiscal ’24, and build on our momentum to deliver significant, sustained profit margins in the future.
Ultimately, our mission is to make ESPN into the preeminent digital sports brand, reaching as many sports fans as possible and giving them even more ways to access the programming they love, in whatever way best suits their needs.
One way will be through the new streaming sports service coming this fall that we announced yesterday in conjunction with Fox and Warner Brothers Discovery.
This service will bring together our collective portfolios of sports channels and direct‐to‐consumer services – on a non‐exclusive basis – providing consumers with more of the sports they want in a single place.
It's important for us to serve the needs of consumers looking for a seamless way to access an aggregated collection of sports‐centric content, including capturing fans moving away from the full cable and satellite bundle.
And it’s an attractive business proposition for ESPN, allowing us to command per unit economics in line with established market rates for our sports content, just like we do with any streaming or linear service where we offer our programming.
Another exciting option available to sports fans will come in the fall of 2025, when we make the full suite of ESPN’s channels available as a stand‐alone and highly interactive digital destination.
Not only will consumers be able to stream their favorite live games and studio programming, they’ll also have access to engaging digital integrations like ESPN Bet and fantasy sports, e‐ commerce features, and a deep array of sports stats, all of which we know will be incredibly compelling to younger sports fans in particular.
We’re excited to offer a more unified streaming experience, which we expect will deliver strong benefits in terms of higher engagement, lower churn, and greater advertising potential.
When we launch our stand‐alone ESPN service, we will also make it available on Disney+ for bundle subscribers, just as we’ve done for Hulu.
We’ve already seen an incredible response to the beta launch of Hulu on Disney+, which has far exceeded every metric, and we are looking forward to the full launch next month.
This is all part of the ambitious streaming strategy we’ve been building.
From our acquisition of 21st Century Fox that expanded our vast content library and strong pool of creative talent; to the launch of Disney+ as the home to a century of content; to securing full control of Hulu and expanding our streaming offerings to reach greater audiences; to our significant investments in technology; and now taking significant steps toward ESPN’s streaming future.
More than anything, the success of our streaming services is a testament to the amazing content we create.
With 6 of the top 10 most streamed movies across all streaming platforms in the U.S. in 2023, our best‐in‐class storytelling continues to entertain millions of people.
These films will not only reach global audiences in theaters, but as we’ve consistently demonstrated, they will become important anchors on our global streaming platforms, driving subscriptions and engagement, while also continuing to fuel growth in our Experiences business.
And revenue increased sequentially by over 10%, benefitting from higher subscription and advertising revenue.
Hulu subscribers increased by 1.2 million from Q4 to Q1, and Disney+ Core subscribers decreased sequentially by 1.3 million, in line with prior guidance, driven by the expected Page 10 Q1 FY24 Earnings Conference Call – Final Transcript February 7, 2024 temporary uptick in churn given the recent domestic price increases as well as the end of the global summer promotion.
I’ll note that we are being paid on all entitled Charter subs, which will also be a key driver of accelerated Disney+ Core sub growth in Q2.
While subscriber growth will vary from quarter to quarter, we are confident in our prospects for ongoing sub growth over the longer term, driven by: the continued global strength of our content slate; advancing our paid sharing efforts; technology advances that are intended to improve our content promotion and discovery capabilities, drive up engagement and lower churn; the impact of making Hulu content available on Disney+ for bundle subs and continued adoption of the bundle domestically, which should both increase engagement and lower churn Page 11 Q1 FY24 Earnings Conference Call – Final Transcript February 7, 2024 – a strategy we will repeat in Latin America this summer when we combine Disney+ and Star+; and our continued use of tiering, to provide subscribers with more choices.
While we are still in the early days and don’t expect notable benefits from these paid sharing initiatives until the back half of calendar 2024, we want to reach as large an audience as possible with our outstanding content, and we’re looking forward to rolling out this new functionality to improve the overall customer experience and grow our subscriber base.
We still expect to reach profitability at our combined streaming businesses in Q4 of fiscal 2024 and have never been more confident about our path to creating a strong and sustainable streaming business – with growing subscribers over the long term and, ultimately, double digit operating margins – a business which we fully expect to be a key earnings growth driver for the company.
Domestic entertainment affiliate revenue decreased by 5% in the first quarter versus the prior year, as a 5‐point benefit from higher rates was more than offset by a 10‐point decline from fewer subscribers.
You guys have a lot going on with ESPN, the new channels package, flagship, obviously having conversations.
As we look to the future, we're obviously mindful of, one, the state of the multichannel ecosystem; two, where people are spending their time and their money with media.
We've been saying for a long time that taking ESPN in the direct‐to‐consumer direction was inevitable and that we were looking for partners to do so.
The second step is finding these partners to distribute basically the equivalent of a multichannel, sports‐centric tier via app.
Rather than cable and satellite in this case, it's app based.
And that's a big step for us because we know that there are a number of people who have never signed up for multichannel television.
And this is a way of basically preserving a relationship or creating one with those that are no longer part of the multichannel ecosystem.
We haven't really talked much about how it will be – further how it will be bundled except with our own services.
When you think about the future of your offerings, how does that fit into what you just announced with direct over‐the‐top ESPN and then sports bundle?
It just happens to be integrated or attached to Hulu if you subscribe to it.
So this, in a way, I guess, you'd argue, competes with Hulu Live directly but it doesn't compete with Hulu because this will be bundled with Hulu.
You know, we're realistic about Hulu Live in terms of the impact this could have, but that Hulu Live is certainly a nice, important feature of our Hulu business, but the critical part of that business is Hulu itself.
Number one, it's got growing subscribers; and number two, it has attractive margins, which we're defining as double digits.
And on the sports JV, how do you plan to attract non‐pay‐TV subs to what sounds like it might be an expensive sports service without a significant decrease in traditional pay TV subs who would actually save money?
Bob Iger – Chief Executive Officer, The Walt Disney Company On the sports service and the pricing, I think the way you have to look at it is, the sports service is going to be substantially less expensive to consumers than the big bundle that they'd have to buy to get those same channels on cable and satellite.
One, we believe there are a number of sports fans out there that want to watch sports on television but didn't want to sign up to the big cable and satellite bundle.
Number one, we have some – made some changes to the user language that we have in the U.S., Canada and certain markets so that we'll actually have the opportunity to act on the paid sharing opportunity.
Number two, the accounts that we think are doing unpaid sharing right now will get communication this summer, and we'll give them opportunities to allow their borrowers to start new subscriptions.
And then, Hugh, I think an inevitable question with the buyback announcement is what you expect you might end up ultimately paying for Hulu.
And in our zeal to greatly increase volume, partially tied to wanting to chase more global subs for our streaming platform, some of our studios lost a little focus.
Since there's so much discussion about bundling and distribution, I was wondering if I could ask you if you could share any observations related to Charter integrating Disney+ into its pay TV programming tiers.
Is there anything you could say about the percentage of customers actually using it or engagement levels relative to the average Disney+ subscriber?
And maybe lastly, do you think that this is a model that you'd like to replicate with other pay TV distributors over time as your agreements come up for renewal?
Important to us, obviously, because it gives us access to more of their customers and important to them in terms of bundling this service with their multichannel customers.
You can imagine the creation of short‐form videos or may – we may even use the platform to actually distribute some of our content.
Obviously, there'll be some – the opportunities to buy digital goods, but maybe even at some point, physical goods.
Understand that we're going to get paid in this new joint venture for our channels at a level that's commensurate with the level that we get paid for those channels in the multichannel ecosystem.
And so if a consumer moves out of that and then into this, then what we get paid for our – certainly, these channels that are in it, is equal to what we get paid there.
We have some other channels that are not part of this new bundle.
But frankly, if you look at our company and you look at what we've done with FX on Hulu, with the Disney Channel on Disney+, with National Geographic on Disney+, we're really very well positioned to withstand, basically, the continued challenges that the multichannel ecosystem will have.
Page 29 Q1 FY24 Earnings Conference Call – Final Transcript February 7, 2024 And while there might be some de minimis economic impact on us with more cord‐cutting for those channels, we're backstopped in all of those channels with the content that exists or that we ultimately put on Hulu and Disney+.
Page 30 Q1 FY24 Earnings Conference Call – Final Transcript February 7, 2024 In particular, our expectations regarding DTC profitability, subscriber levels and ARPU are built on certain assumptions around subscriber additions based on the future strength of our content slate, churn expectations, the financial impact of the Disney+ ad tier and price increases, the impact of bundling and availability of Hulu on Disney+, technological advances and paid sharing efforts, our ability to continue to execute on cost rationalization while preserving revenue, and macroeconomic conditions, all of which, while based on extensive internal analysis as well as recent experience, provide a layer of uncertainty in our outlook.