At a high level, we've seen broad strength across content categories, across all regions.
The advertising user base is growing quickly and your ad tech has been ramping for almost a year.
What are your biggest learnings and perhaps hurdles for advertising monetization in 2025?
It means that we obviously have more people that can sign up and enjoy a growing range of entertainment that we've got to offer.
It's also the reason that we've been successful in driving that first ads priority we had in our ads goals, our most primary ads goals, which were to get to sufficient scale.
So Q4, ads plan represented over 55% of sign-ups across our ads countries.
We've seen membership on those ads plan increase about 30% quarter-over-quarter this last quarter.
And that means that increasingly, we've been able to shift more of our focus, more of our attention on making the offering better for advertisers to increase monetization of that growing inventory.
For example, we exceeded our ads revenue target in Q4, which was an exciting milestone to get.
We've doubled our ads revenue year-over-year last year.
A big part of that is standing up our own ad stack.
And the biggest initial benefit we have of using our own ads server is just enabling us to offer more flexibility, more ways of buying for advertisers, fewer activation hurdles, just improving the overall buyer experience.
And of course, that is meant to drive increased sales and the ease of transacting with Netflix.
And then over time, the first-party ad tech platform allows us to deliver more critical capabilities to advertisers that we hear from them that they really need.
We're talking enhanced targeting, we're leveraging more data sources, more measurement, more reporting, more incrementality studies.
So being on our own tech stack enables all those advertising features, advertiser-facing features.
And I think it actually draws a lot of attention to how powerful the platform is to promote to our own members, how Netflix can talk to our members where they are, which is on Netflix to tell them about a great new movie they're going to love.
Of course, we look to continue to provide more value to our members, seeking to wisely invest to increase the variety and quality of our entertainment offering.
And as long as we continue to deliver on improving the variety, the quality of our TV and film slate, we gradually expand the offering with newer content types, we believe we'll be able to increase that share progressively every year.
Is engagement growth a strategic priority for Netflix?
Right now at about 200 billion of hours of programming or streaming last year.
What are the key steps to competing more with short-form video platforms for engagement?
We know that consumers want a spot to enjoy great movies and TV shows, to have a user interface and user experience which is designed specifically around that.
We've got fan favorites based on Netflix IP, things like Too Hot to Handle, Emily in Paris, Selling Sunset, and to our latest big release, Squid Game: Unleashed, which we really think validates our Netflix game formula, which is enabling this virtuous cycle between linear content and simultaneous game offerings.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 11 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2024 EARNINGS CALL JAN 21, 2025 of those big licensed titles to come that we're looking forward to as well as homegrown titles based on our IP like Squid Game: Unleashed, which I'll just reiterate, Squid Game: Unleashed reached #1 in action games in the app stores in 107 countries.
And so to your question about impacts on the subscriber side, we already see positive impacts in acquisition and retention from our game play members.
So to try and summarize, there's plenty more to do in this space, but we're breaking into a whole new content category, which, by the way, drives approximately $140 billion in consumer spend ex China, ex Russia and not even including the ad revenue.
We're pretty heavily investing into our product and engineering teams to build out ads and live and games capabilities and also our new user interface to enhance our product discovery.
We're also investing in the marketing and sales line, mostly on the sales side as we build out our ads sales organization and go-to-market capabilities.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13 NETFLIX, INC. FQ4 2024 EARNINGS CALL JAN 21, 2025 Copyright © 2025 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.