Christian brings incredible expertise and proven leadership to Spotify and I’m grateful to have the benefit of his track record.
Q3 is another standout in what you’ve heard me refer to as “the year of monetization” and we are on track for our first full year of profitability.
Back at our 2022 Investor Day, we set clear goals for Spotify’s growth, and this quarter marks a key point where we’ve successfully achieved - and even surpassed those targets….Doing so slightly ahead of schedule.
This demonstrates what we’ve been saying over the past year: Spotify is not just a great product, but well on its way to becoming a great business.
Over the past few years, we’ve continuously modulated our time and resources between focusing on growth and optimizing for profitability.
So, as you think about Spotify in 2025 and beyond, picture a company that operates with the same disciplined management you've seen this year, but one that also has the ambition to seize the opportunities presented by what’s happening in technology.
All great stuff for the music industry, which will drive further growth across our core business.
And, just as we successfully entered the audiobook space, we’re committed to making targeted investments that also expand Spotify into new areas, enhance the platform, and deepen the value we bring to users.
This relentless focus on consistently delivering exceptional value – well beyond the price a user pays for Spotify –is how we drive sustainable growth for all stakeholders across our entire ecosystem.
Premium revenue rose 24% Y/Y on a constant currency basis, driven by continued subscriber growth and ARPU acceleration associated with price increases.
With respect to subscriber net additions - the very low levels of churn that we expect in the 6 markets where we’ve recently announced price increases, is also incorporated into our Q4 outlook.
We have also incorporated our ongoing actions to drive better subscriber monetization.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ324.
This relentless pursuit of innovation and commitment to growth sets us up to deliver the most valuable user experience in the industry, while reinforcing the core strengths that make Spotify unique.