Our results were driven in large part by our Experiences segment and our streaming business, which achieved an important milestone, with the entertainment portion of the streaming business achieving profitability in the quarter.
We also remain on track to reach profitability in our combined streaming businesses in Q4.
We’ve said all along our path to profitability will not be linear, and while we are anticipating a softer third quarter, due in large part to the seasonality of our India sports offerings, we fully expect streaming to be a growth driver for the company in the future and we have prioritized the steps necessary to achieve this.
In March, we successfully launched Hulu on Disney+, bringing extensive general entertainment content to the platform for bundle subscribers, and we’re encouraged by the early results.
And, by the end of this calendar year we will be adding an ESPN tile to Disney+, giving all U.S. subscribers access to select live games and studio programming within the Disney+ app.
We see this as a first step to bringing ESPN to Disney+ viewers as we ready the launch of our enhanced stand‐alone ESPN streaming service in the fall of 2025.
Page 2 Q2 FY24 Earnings Conference Call May 7, 2024 The key to our success in streaming, and what consistently brings consumers back for more, is the array of exceptional content we produce that captivates audiences of all ages and backgrounds.
This is a great example of how we are successfully reaching wider audiences with our combined linear and streaming ecosystem.
In Q2, series that aired on linear networks accounted for 17 of the top 20 most viewed series on our streaming platforms, with almost 3 billion hours of consumption.
Our linear channels are deeply embedded in our direct‐to‐consumer strategy as they continue to deliver high‐quality content that reaches demographics not captured on streaming alone, allowing us to broaden our audiences and leverage our unmatched content engine across an expansive base.
Core Disney+ subscribers increased by 6.3 million in the quarter, reflecting nearly 8 million additions domestically, driven by Charter entitlements, and a slight loss internationally from the impacts of wholesale deal changes and price increases.
We are pleased with the progress we’re making in streaming, although, as we’ve said before, the path to long term profitability is not a linear one.
As Bob mentioned, we continue to expect our combined streaming businesses to be profitable in the fourth quarter, and expect further improvements in profitability in fiscal 2025.
Reducing distribution costs are an opportunity, and leveraging technology for direct‐to‐ consumer marketing as well as recommendation engines, which help both on the revenue and cost side.
But at the end of this year, we're going to put an ESPN tile on Disney+, which will have a modest amount of programming, but it's a start in terms of essentially conditioning the audience or subscribers to Disney+ and Hulu to the fact that sports is going to be there.
As I look ahead, I think ESPN is going to make a pivot toward digital, but without abandoning linear.
So it will remain on linear if people want to get ESPN and its different channels through a cable or a satellite subscription, that's fine.
Or if they want to pivot smoothly because there will be many different access points to get the digital product to ESPN digital.
So I feel – I'm very bullish, smooth transition to digital, multiple touch points for the consumer, quality programming and sports and general live being very, very attractive in terms of its programming.
Can you give us your thoughts going into the upfront, particularly with the integration of the Trade Desk and Google TV 360?
Obviously, we're heartened by the results that Netflix has delivered in their password sharing initiative and believe that it will be one of the contributors to growth, as Hugh noted, going forward.
Page 15 Q2 FY24 Earnings Conference Call May 7, 2024 I think it's also important to note, look, Netflix is, in many respects, the gold standard when it comes to streaming.
We have a great lineup and quality of programming across not just ESPN and Disney+, but also Hulu.
What we're building is the technology that Netflix has had in place and has been building for well over a decade to improve the business from a bottom‐line perspective.
The ESPN tile definitely makes sense, but can you talk about efforts to boost viewership on the platform, including the revamp of the technology and maybe the UI that you referenced last quarter?
Anything you can tell us about engagement for users on the new combined Disney+ Hulu platform?
What's the plan for that service once the flagship platform is launched next fall?
As we window it into the streaming service, we think that's going to do great things for engagement.
I mean is that going to remain a separate service sort of alongside the sort of full‐ blown ESPN streaming service once that's launched next year?
If you do not want that, then you can buy ESPN+ on its own.
1 Includes subscribers to the Trio Basic (with ads) and Premium bundle offerings that include Disney+, Hulu and ESPN+.
So the questions are, how did that subscriber base perform from an engagement perspective?
And then second, I wanted to ask about licensing content and what your view is or your updated view of licensing your content off‐platform?
What the growth opportunity is there and whether you kind of look at the so‐called Netflix effect as something you could benefit from by Page 23 Q2 FY24 Earnings Conference Call May 7, 2024 licensing off‐platform or whether you want to create that effect yourselves on your own platform and keep content in‐house?
Bob Iger – Chief Executive Officer, The Walt Disney Company We are already doing some licensing with Netflix, and we're looking selectively at other possibilities.
But as you know, we're also watching as some studios have licensed content to third‐party streamers, and that then creates more traction, more awareness, and in effect increases not only the value of the content from a financial perspective, but just in terms of traction.
In particular, our expectations regarding DTC profitability, subscriber levels and ARPU are built on certain assumptions around subscriber additions based on the future strength of our Page 25 Q2 FY24 Earnings Conference Call May 7, 2024 content slate; churn expectations; the financial impact of Disney+’s ad tier, pricing decisions, bundling and availability of Hulu on Disney+, technological advances and paid sharing efforts, our ability to continue to rationalize costs while preserving revenue; and macroeconomic conditions, all of which, while based on extensive internal analysis as well as recent experience, provide a layer of uncertainty in our outlook.