Microsoft completed the acquisition of Activision Blizzard this quarter, and we are reporting its results in our More Personal Computing segment, beginning on October 13th, 2023.
Accordingly, our Xbox content and services revenue growth investor metric includes the net impact of Activision.
It was a record quarter, driven by the continued strength of the Microsoft Cloud, which surpassed $33 billion in revenue, up 24%.
By infusing AI across every layer of our tech stack, we’re winning new customers and helping drive new benefits and productivity gains.
Now, I’ll highlight examples of our momentum and progress, starting with Azure.
Azure again took share this quarter, with our AI advantage.
And, with Azure AI, we provide access to the best selection of foundation and open-source models, including both LLMs and SLMs, all integrated deeply with infrastructure, data, and tools on Azure.
Over one-third are new to Azure over the past 12 months.
Our new “models as a service” offering makes it easy for developers to use LLMs from our partners like Cohere, Meta, and Mistral on Azure without having to manage underlying infrastructure.
And we have great momentum with our Azure OpenAI Service.
We are seeing increased usage from AI-first startups like Moveworks, Perplexity, SymphonyAI, as well as some of the world’s largest companies.
Over half of the Fortune 500 use Azure OpenAI today, including Ally Financial, Coca-Cola, and Rockwell Automation.
For example, at CES this month Walmart shared how it’s using Azure OpenAI Service, along with its own proprietary data and models, to streamline how more than 50,000 associates work, and transform how its millions of customers shop.
More broadly, customers continue to choose Azure to simplify and accelerate their cloud migrations.
Overall, we are seeing larger and more strategic Azure deals, with an increase in the number of billion-dollar-plus Azure commitments.
Vodafone, for example, will invest $1.5 billion in cloud and AI services over the next 10 years as it works to transform the digital experience of more than 300 million customers worldwide.
Cosmos DB is the go-to database to build AI-powered apps at any scale, powering workloads for companies in every industry, from AXA and Coles, to Mitsubishi and TomTom.
KPMG, for example, has used Cosmos DB, including its built-in native vector search capabilities, along with Azure OpenAI Service, to power an AI assistant, which it credits with driving an up to 50% increase in productivity for its consultants.
And this quarter, we made Microsoft Fabric generally available, helping customers like Milliman and PwC go from data, to insights, to action—all within the same unified SaaS solution.
And more than 50,000 organizations use GitHub Copilot Business to supercharge the productivity of their developers, from digital natives like Etsy and HelloFresh, to leading enterprises like Autodesk, Dell Technologies, and Goldman Sachs.
And with Copilot Studio, organizations can tailor Copilot for Microsoft 365 or create their own custom copilots.
In just weeks, for example, both PayPal and Tata Digital built copilots to answer common employee queries, increasing productivity and reducing support costs.
We’re also using this AI moment to redefine our role in business applications.
Dynamics 365 once again took share, as organizations use our AI-powered apps to transform their marketing, sales, service, finance, and supply chain functions.
In Sales, our Copilot has helped sellers at more than 30,000 organizations— including Lumen Technologies and Schneider Electric—to enrich their customer interactions using data from Dynamics 365 or Salesforce.
It includes out-of-the-box integrations to apps like Salesforce, ServiceNow, and Zendesk.
With our industry and cross-industry clouds, we’re tailoring our solutions to meet the needs of specific industries.
And, overall, early Copilot for Microsoft 365 users were 29% faster in a series of tasks like searching, writing, and summarizing.
And, we’re expanding availability to organizations of all sizes.
More than two-thirds of our enterprise Teams customers buy Phone, Rooms, or Premium.
All this innovation is driving growth across Microsoft 365.
We now have more than 400 million paid Office 365 seats.
And organizations like BP, Elanco, ING Bank, Mediaset, WTW all chose E5 this quarter to empower their employees with our best-in-class productivity apps, along with advanced security, compliance, voice, and analytics.
We also continue to transform how Windows is experienced and managed with Azure Virtual Desktop and Windows 365, introducing new features that make it simpler for employees to access and IT teams to secure their cloud PCs.
Usage of cloud-delivered Windows increased over 50% year-over-year.
And, all up, Windows 11 commercial deployments increased 2X year-over- year as companies like HPE and Petrobas rolled out the operating system to employees.
All-up, we have over one million customers, including more than 700,000 who use four or more of our security products, like Arrow Electronics, DXC Technology, Freeport-McMoRan, Insight Enterprises, JB Hunt, and The Mosaic Company.
New AI features—including more personalized InMails—also continue to increase business ROI on the platform, and our hiring business took share for the sixth consecutive quarter.
And, just two weeks ago, we introduced Copilot Pro, providing access to the latest models for quick answers and higher-quality image creation, and access to Copilot for Microsoft 365 Personal and Family subscribers.
This quarter, we set all-time records for monthly active users on Xbox, PC, as well as mobile—where we now have over 200 million monthly active users alone, inclusive of Activision Blizzard King.
With our acquisition, we’ve added hundreds of millions of gamers to our ecosystem, as we execute on our ambition to reach more gamers on more platforms.
With cloud gaming, we continue to innovate to offer players more ways to experience the games they love, where, when, and how they want.
And we’ve also announced launching significant updates this calendar year to many of our most durable franchises, which bring in millions of players each month, including Call of Duty, Elder Scrolls Online, and Starfield.
In our commercial business, strong demand for our Microsoft Cloud offerings, including AI services, drove better than expected growth in large, long-term Azure contracts.
Microsoft 365 suite strength contributed to ARPU expansion for our Office Commercial business, while new business growth continued to be moderated for standalone products sold outside the Microsoft 365 suite.
The strength in long-term Azure contracts mentioned earlier along with strong execution across our core annuity sales motions, including healthy renewals, drove our results.
In our consumer business, the PC and advertising markets were generally in line with our expectations.
As a reminder, my Q2 commentary includes the net impact of Activision from the date of acquisition, inclusive of purchase accounting, integration, and transaction-related expenses.
The net impact includes adjusting for the movement of Activision content from our prior relationship as a third-party partner to first-party.
This impact includes $1.1 billion from purchase accounting adjustments, integration, and transaction-related costs such as severance- related charges related to last week’s announcement.
Microsoft Cloud revenue was $33.7 billion, ahead of expectations, and grew 24% and 22% in constant currency.
Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate for useful lives, gross margin percentage increased roughly 1 point driven by improvement in Azure and Office 365, partially offset by the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand.
Growth was driven by improvement in devices as well as the improvement in Azure and Office 365 just mentioned.
The Activision impact includes $550 million from purchase accounting adjustments, integration, and transaction-related costs.
Office 365 commercial revenue increased 17% and 16% in constant currency, in line with expectations, driven by healthy renewal execution and ARPU growth from continued E5 momentum.
Paid Office 365 commercial seats grew 9% year-over-year to over 400 million with installed base expansion across all customer segments.
Office commercial licensing declined 17% and 18% in constant currency, with continued customer shift to cloud offerings.
Office consumer revenue increased 5% and 4% in constant currency with continued momentum in Microsoft 365 subscriptions, which grew 16% to 78.4 million.
Dynamics revenue grew 21% and 19% in constant currency driven by Dynamics 365, which grew 27% and 24% in constant currency with continued growth across all workloads.
Bookings growth was impacted by weaker new business, primarily in Dynamics 365 ERP and CRM workloads.
Overall, server products and cloud services revenue grew 22% and 20% in constant currency.
Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 30% and 28% in constant currency, including 6 points of growth from AI services.
Both AI and non-AI Azure services drove our outperformance.
In our on-premises server business, revenue increased 3% and 2% in constant currency, ahead of expectations driven primarily by better-than- expected demand related to Windows Server 2012 end of support.
Windows commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 9% and 7% in constant currency, below expectations primarily due to lower in- period revenue recognition from the mix of contracts.
And in Gaming, revenue increased 49% and 48% in constant currency, with 44 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition.
Xbox content and services revenue increased 61% and 60% in constant currency, driven by 55 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition.
Xbox hardware revenue grew 3% and 1% in constant currency.
These data center investments support our cloud demand inclusive of needs to scale our AI infrastructure.
In commercial bookings, strong execution across our core annuity sales motions, including healthy renewals, along with long term Azure commitments should drive healthy growth on a growing expiry base.
Excluding the impact from the accounting estimate change, Q3 cloud gross margin percentage will be relatively flat as improvement in Office 365 and Azure will be offset by sales mix shift to Azure as well as the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure to meet growing demand.
We expect capital expenditures to increase materially on a sequential basis driven by investments in our cloud and AI infrastructure and the slip of a delivery date from Q2 to Q3 from a third-party provider noted earlier.
As a reminder, there can be normal quarterly spend variability in the timing of our cloud infrastructure buildout.
In Office Commercial, revenue growth will again be driven by Office 365 with seat growth across customer segments and ARPU growth thru E5.
We expect Office 365 revenue growth to be approximately 15% in constant currency.
While it’s early days for Microsoft 365 Copilot, we’re excited by the adoption we’ve seen to date, and continue to expect revenue to grow over time.
In Office consumer, we expect revenue growth in the mid to high single digits, driven by Microsoft 365 subscriptions.
And in Dynamics, we expect revenue growth in the mid-teens driven by Dynamics 365.
For Intelligent Cloud we expect revenue of $26 to $26.3 billion or growth between 18% and 19%.
Revenue will continue to be driven by Azure which, as a reminder, can have quarterly variability primarily from our per-user business and from in- period revenue recognition depending on the mix of contracts.
Growth will be driven by our Azure consumption business with continued strong contribution from AI.
Our per-user business should see benefit from Microsoft 365 suite momentum, though we expect continued moderation in seat growth rates given the size of the installed base.
In our on-premises server business, we expect revenue growth in the low to mid-single digits with continued hybrid demand, including licenses running in multi-cloud environments.
In Windows commercial products and cloud services, customer demand for Microsoft 365 and our advanced security solutions should drive revenue growth in the mid-teens.
And in Gaming, we expect revenue growth in the low 40s, including approximately 45 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition.
We expect Xbox content and services revenue growth in the low to mid-50s, driven by approximately 50 points of net impact from the Activision acquisition.
For the full year FY24, we expect Activision to be accretive to operating income when excluding purchase accounting, integration and transaction-related costs.
At a total company level, we delivered strong results in H1 and demand for our Microsoft Cloud continues to drive the growth in our outlook for H2.
Our commitment to scaling our cloud and AI investment is guided by customer demand and the substantial market opportunity.
In closing, we are focused on execution so our customers can realize the benefits of AI productivity gains as we invest to lead this AI platform wave.
Amy, you’ve discussed Azure being stable, and you delivered Azure growth, stability.
But if we drill in one layer, we see Azure AI continuing to become a bigger portion of the revenue.
I understand that separating what is directly AI revenue and what is other IaaS PaaS revenue that are leveraging or driven by AI is difficult.
Second part: On AI, where are we in the journey from training driving most of Azure AI usage to inferencing?
The new workload in AI, obviously in our case, starts with one of the frontier – starts with the frontier model, Azure OpenAI.
Where people are expecting productivity gains, other benefits that grow revenue.
Cloud computing changed the tech stack in ways that we could not imagine 10 years back, the nature of the database layer or the operating system layer.
And by the way, you can have an Azure AI job on top of the same data lake, so to speak, or the lake house pattern.
Office, I mean if you think about what – if you look at Copilot, Copilot extensibility with GPT, Copilot apps through the Copilot stack, that’s another sort of part of what’s happening to the tech stack.
I mean, I do believe being in the cloud has been very helpful to build AI, but now AI is just redefining what it means to have – what the cloud looks like, both at the infrastructure level and the app model.
And that is going toward, as we talked about, servers and also new datacenter footprints to be able to meet what we see as this demand, and really changing demand, as we look forward.
I feel like primarily, obviously, this is being built by us, but we’ve also used third-party capacity to help when we could have that help us, in terms of meeting customer demand.
The early market feedback that we’re all hearing on Microsoft 365 Copilot is very powerful.
And so, chat, summarization, draft, also, by the way, actions, one of the most used thing is here’s the Word document, go complete, create a PowerPoint for me.
I feel like these all become – but fundamentally what happens is you remember the PC adoption cycle, what it did was work, work artifact and workflow changed, right?
AMY HOOD: And maybe just to add two points, one of the exciting things is, as Satya said, for some companies, it’s going to be standard issue, like a PC.
And the other thing I would add, we always talk about, in Enterprise software, you sell software, then you wait and then it gets deployed.
For instance, is it more the OpenAI inferencing GitHub Copilot, other Copilots, the Azure OpenAI service, third-party LLMs running on Azure?
SATYA NADELLA: Azure OpenAI and then OpenAI on APIs, on top of Azure would be sort of the major drivers.
Then even the horizontal Copilot is what Amy was talking about, which is that the Office 365 or a Microsoft 365 level.
And I think GitHub Copilot – I’d never thought of the tools business as fundamentally participating in the operating expenses of a company’s spend on, let’s say, development activity.