• Profitability of our combined DTC streaming businesses1 further improved, and we are confident that direct-to-consumer will be a significant growth area for the company.
We remain just as excited about 2025, with a collection of highly 1 DTC streaming businesses operating income (loss) is not a financial measure defined by GAAP.
STREAMING Central to our strategy is making our already-profitable streaming businesses a significant growth-driver for the company.
Disney has the largest share of U.S. viewership across all distribution formats, from theatrical releases to linear and streaming, all of which fuel an integrated business model whose reach and scale are unique to Disney and can drive higher system economics.
Our franchises and tentpole films drove engagement in the quarter and lifted viewership of related titles in our streaming library.
Our combined DTC streaming businesses improved their profitability in Q4, with operating income1 of $321 million, after reaching profitability for the first time in Q31.
Bundle subscriptions continued to grow, with Hulu on Disney+ driving strong engagement with content like The Bear, Only Murders in the Building, and The Secret Lives of Mormon Wives.
We ended the quarter with 174 million Disney+ Core and Hulu subscriptions.
And this week marks five years since we launched Disney+, which we have built into a streaming destination unlike any other with more than 120 million Core subscribers.
Now, with the addition of Hulu on Disney+, it is the ultimate collection of high-quality content for every member of the household, from our extensive library of branded and general entertainment titles to news and live events.
We are strengthening that streaming offering even more with the introduction of the ESPN tile on Disney+ on December 4.
This will provide Trio Bundle subscribers full access to all of the ESPN+ sports content they love Page 3 while inside Disney+, similar to the experience we offer bundle subscribers with Hulu on Disney+.
We will also make select ESPN content available to all Disney+ subscribers, including certain live sports events and games, as well as studio shows, series, and documentaries.
When we launch ESPN’s flagship DTC offering in early fall 2025, those who subscribe to the flagship product and Disney+ will have access to the full suite of ESPN and ESPN+ content within Disney+.
In addition, the flagship experience within the ESPN App will give subscribers access to an enhanced array of innovative digital features, creating a sports destination unlike anything available in the marketplace today.
These expanded content offerings should generate higher engagement, resulting in lower churn, as well as even greater advertising potential.
Disney is an industry leader in advertising thanks to the unique combination of our best-in- class ad tech, including automation and programmatic advertising, as well as the volume of our premium programming and unrivaled live sports, which distinguishes us from other streaming platforms globally.
What’s more, we own our proprietary ad tech, which is built specifically for streaming entertainment and live sports and is already at scale, allowing us to be nimbler, build tools to optimize buying and measurement, leverage the value of our inventory, and reinforce the long-standing relationships we have established with advertisers.
More than half of new U.S. Disney+ subscribers are choosing the ad tier, which bodes well for the future.
Both consumer insights and ad targeting capabilities provide us with greater monetization opportunities, while at the same time delivering more value to consumers with extensive content and viewing options.
SPORTS ESPN is the premier destination for sports fans, and we remain focused on its continued evolution as the preeminent digital sports platform to serve fans anytime, anywhere.
Consumers are increasingly relying on ESPN as a digital destination for sports news and content.
For more than 30 consecutive months, ESPN Digital topped the U.S. Sports Category, with 120.6 million unique visitors in September3.
Across ESPN Digital, YouTube, and ESPN Social platforms, that month ESPN reached 195.8 million unique users.
Our digital strategy is working – our research shows that younger audiences think of ESPN as a digital-first brand, where our relevancy is fueled by social, the ESPN App, and streaming.
The possibilities enabled by digital technology are a sports fan’s dream, and as we approach the launch of ESPN’s flagship DTC offering in early fall 2025, the team is hard at work in creating innovative digital features for the ESPN App such as fantasy sports integrations, enhanced statistics, betting features, and e-commerce to accompany ESPN’s full package of sports programming.
Our Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer business delivered more than $250 million in operating income in Q4, driven by growth in subscription and advertising revenue.
In Q1, we expect a modest decline in Disney+ Core subscribers versus Q4 driven by the expected temporary uptick in churn from both the recent price increases and the end of a recent promotional offer.
Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer is on track to become a key earnings growth driver for the company, and we expect full-year fiscal 2025 operating income to increase by approximately $875 million versus the prior year, which includes a comparison to an adverse impact of our India DTC business of approximately $200 million to fiscal 2024 Entertainment Direct-to-Consumer results.
Operating income for Entertainment SVOD DTC businesses (excluding our Hulu Live DMVPD service) is a non-GAAP financial measure.
This executive commentary also presents forward-looking operating margin for Entertainment SVOD DTC businesses (excluding our Hulu Live DMVPD service), which is calculated as operating income divided by revenue.
Diluted EPS excluding certain items, total segment operating income, free cash flow, DTC streaming businesses operating income (loss) and operating income for Entertainment SVOD DTC businesses (excluding our Hulu Live DMVPD service) are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
Diluted EPS excluding certain items, total segment operating income, free cash flow, DTC streaming businesses operating income (loss) and operating income (and related margin) for Entertainment SVOD DTC businesses (excluding our Hulu Live DMVPD service) as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
In addition, our definition of operating income (and related margin) for Entertainment SVOD DTC businesses (excluding our Hulu Live DMVPD service) is provided below.
DTC streaming businesses operating income (loss) DTC streaming businesses operating income (loss) is calculated as Direct-to-Consumer operating income (loss) at the Entertainment segment plus ESPN+ operating income (loss) at the Sports segment.
The Company uses combined DTC streaming businesses operating income (loss) because it believes that this measure allows investors to evaluate the performance of its portfolio of streaming businesses and track progress against the Company’s goal of reaching profitability at its combined streaming businesses.
Page 11 Operating Income for Entertainment SVOD DTC businesses (excluding our Hulu Live DMVPD service) Operating income for Entertainment SVOD DTC businesses (excluding our Hulu Live DMVPD service) consists of operating income for the Direct-to-Consumer line of business at the Entertainment segment less our Hulu Live DMVPD service.
The Company uses operating income (and related margin) for Entertainment SVOD DTC businesses (excluding our Hulu Live DMVPD service) as a measure of the performance of our Entertainment SVOD direct-to-consumer services separate from our Hulu Live DMVPD service, which we believe assists investors by allowing them to evaluate the performance of its these SVOD direct-to-consumer services.