Meanwhile, we ended the quarter with 174 million Disney+ Core and Hulu subscriptions.
And in five short years, we have built Disney+ into a streaming destination unlike any other with more than 120 million Core subscribers.
And with the addition of Hulu on Disney+, it is the ultimate collection of high-quality content for every member of the household, from our extensive library of branded and general entertainment titles to news and live events.
We have invested to make our already-profitable streaming business a significant growth driver for the company, and we are strengthening that streaming offering even more on December 4 with the introduction of an ESPN tile on Disney+.
And this integrated streaming experience moves us one step closer to bringing a full sports offering to Disney+ in the U.S. as we prepare for the launch of ESPN’s flagship DTC offering in early fall of 2025.
Bob, I feel like the ESPN flagship launch is in many ways sort of the last big strategic pivot of your content assets to streaming, you know, after you've already accomplished that on the Entertainment side.
Meaning, it will have not only basically the basic ESPN services, which is coverage of live sports and studio shows and commentary, but it'll have many, many other features, like betting fully integrated.1 But I think one of the things that hasn't been appreciated yet is that when you apply technology to the presentation of sports, almost anything is possible.
I think essentially it will be designed to serve the consumer in the most compelling way ESPN has ever served the consumer.
But on one hand you have the linear challenge, and on the complete opposite end you have the growth of Entertainment and Sports in streaming.
And also because it provides-- linear provides a differentiated audience than, than streaming.
So, you're not only offering the customer -- the advertiser -- a differentiated audience and live, but you're also offering the consumer that.
As Bob mentioned, in particular, the ad tech stack that we put together, our ability to deliver the right ads more effectively to consumers, particularly in the streaming business, is a competitive advantage that we've built, and it's owned and is proprietary to Disney.
Bob Iger – Chief Executive Officer, The Walt Disney Company By the way, one thing that I don't think is appreciated is that we're also working well selling inventory with Google and YouTube.2 Basically offering advertisers to buy those platforms, a differentiated audience through a trade desk mechanism.
Bob, since hiring Adam Smith from YouTube, anything you can share about his priorities and how that can impact the future of Disney+ or the other streaming products?
And because that guidance doesn't include Hulu Live, maybe just help us think about the future of that product, please.
Adam is already hard at work and making progress in improving the technology across all of our streaming businesses, and he's got a number of priorities.
We’re unifying tech stacks, including media serving, and our entire ad stack across Disney+ and Hulu, and basically a lot more.
Number one, we're looking to continue to grow subscribers, as we have.
And the thing I'd remind you of in that regard, given the point that we're at, many ways -- the DTC business shares a lot of the characteristics of a software business where an incremental subscriber has very, very high margins attached to them because it's relatively low incremental cost.
And two, we have a strong sense that they're going to enable us to strengthen our streaming performance significantly as well, as we're currently seeing with the films that we're putting out.
First of all, Bob, it looks like Comcast is going to move ahead with a spin-off of its cable networks.
You know, in late 2017, when we announced initially that we were acquiring assets from 20th Century Fox, we specifically mentioned that we were doing so through the lens of streaming.
We saw a world where streaming was going to proliferate and we knew we needed not only more content, but more distribution, and with that came just a tremendous amount of content.
That distribution packaged well -- integrated well with Disney+, has enabled us to achieve the numbers we've achieved, which is approximately 174 million global subscribers3 and an ability to really see into the future of streaming through a very optimistic lens.
We don't really need more assets right now, either from a distribution or from a content perspective, to thrive in basically a disruptive media world.
But as we look to grow our streaming business, we believe there will be opportunities and even a need for us to do some selective investing outside the United States, notably in EMEA and in APAC.
Because clearly, if we can use technology to reduce churn, which we're already doing, then in reality what we're doing is we're increasing return our investment in content.
But we know as we look to grow our streaming business that prioritizing markets outside the United States with specific content in those markets will be part of that strategy.
You know, the beauty of the position we find ourselves in right now with roughly 175 million streaming consumers is we have a bit of a natural hedge in the way that our portfolio operates.
So to the degree that people leave linear and, and choose to go the streaming route, generally speaking, they're going to be coming our way and we have obviously terrific ways to monetize those.
So as that evolves based on consumer choice, I think we're well positioned if they decide to stay in linear for longer, I think we're well positioned if they decide to move over to the streaming side.
Regarding Direct TV, like all of these deals, they're basically uniquely crafted to the situation of that particular partner.
And we see your competitors expanding local content perhaps more than what we see on Disney platforms.
Regarding streaming, we expect our growth to come from a balance of pricing as well as sub growth.
Regarding local content, I'm not sure I have much more to add to what Bob had already mentioned, which is we do see it as valuable.
And if you look at some of our competitors who don't have, you know, movies of basically that quality or you know, that level of success, they have to spend more in local content because they don't have that.
The other thing I would just want to say about pricing, is it's not just about raising pricing, it's about moving consumers to the advertiser supported side of the streaming platform.
So right now, in the United States, about 60% of all new subs4 are going to -- are buying our streaming 4 Disney+ subscribers Page 21 Q4 FY24 Earnings Conference Call November 14, 2024 services, advertising supported or AVOD.
This was -- this was good solid addition to the subscriber base in international.