Today — from iPad to Mac, AirPods to Apple Watch — we’ve never had a stronger lineup of products.
And with services like Apple TV+, the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay, and many more, we’ve only expanded the potential and possibility Apple can bring — from helping people find connection, entertainment and joy, to empowering them to live healthier lives.
9 Progress Across our Values At Apple, we see so many possibilities for technology to enrich people’s lives.
The values we share at Apple inspire the work we share with everyone.
These efforts, many of which began years ago, are reflected in Apple’s current policies and practices, which are detailed in Covington's report.
Additionally, the policy requires Apple to maintain active communication channels with rights holders and other stakeholders.
These reports include updates from Apple’s Senior Vice President, Operations on Apple’s supply chain management, and our program to oversee Apple’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Responsibility Standards.
Equipment and Other Business-Related Programs Apple has an equipment program for the Board under which each Non-Employee Director is eligible to receive, upon request and free of charge, one of each new product introduced by Apple, and is eligible to purchase additional equipment at a discount.
As the leader of Apple’s retail teams, Deirdre supports their work to enrich the lives of millions of Apple customers every year.
Apple is a company where people come together to do the best work of their lives.
Behind every innovation, there are so many talented teams who collaborate to create incredible products and services for Apple users around the world.
And together, we’ll continue to support the success of Apple’s teams, its leaders, and its vital work to create technology that empowers people and enriches their lives.
Our primary peer group consists of large U.S.-based, stand-alone, publicly traded companies in the technology, media, and internet services industries that, in the People and Compensation Committee's view, compete with Apple for talent.
Apple has approximately four times the revenue and approximately twelve times the market capitalization of the median peer companies in its primary peer group.
At Apple, we believe business can and should be a force for good.
Apple engages with stakeholders as part of our commitment to advance meaningful change and find novel solutions to pressing challenges.
We already provide the requested information about the standards and procedures Apple uses to (cid:1267) curate apps available in the App Store and about government orders to take down apps.
Without an inclusive EEO policy, Apple may be sacrificing competitive advantages relative to peers while simultaneously increasing company and shareholder exposure to reputational and financial risks.
In setting this foundation, our Business Conduct Policy states, “Apple is dedicated to maintaining a creative, diverse, inclusive, and supportive work environment, and does not tolerate discrimination or harassment of employees or non-employees with whom we have a business, service, or professional relationship,” thus anchoring our goal of fostering acceptance and supporting diversity in all of its aspects, including diversity based on differing viewpoints and ideologies, in one of our main guiding policies.
As shareholders of Apple Inc., we believe Apple is uniquely situated to help protect these rights and ought to commit to maintaining access to app services as a necessary consequence of its commitment to human rights.
We are therefore greatly concerned at recent reports of Apple arbitrarily limiting content access within its online services, as detailed below.
Shareholders must know that Apple will meaningfully commit to protecting reliable app access as a crucial aspect of both good social policy and respecting its users’ civil liberties.
Furthermore, as detailed in the 2022 edition of the Viewpoint Diversity Index (4), Apple does not provide a clear standard as to what apps are and not allowed on its platforms, indicating a concerning absence of protocol to determine what content is permissible (5), further amplified by recent concerns over Apple’s threat to remove Twitter (X) from its App Store (6), a seemingly political swipe that conservative lawmakers have characterized as a “raw exercise of monopolistic power.” (7) These actions conflict with Apple’s stated Commitment to Human Rights and the interest of millions of Apple’s users in reliably accessing content.
And we report extensively about how our App Store operates.
Apple seeks to abide by the laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, as all companies operating in such jurisdictions must do.
Apple reports transparently and comprehensively on our efforts to help keep the App Store a safe and trusted place for users to find the apps they love.
At Apple, we’re always building on our long-standing commitment to make our Company more inclusive and diverse and provide for equitable pay for all employees.
At Apple, we believe building an inclusive culture rooted in community helps everyone, in every part of Apple, feel supported, valued, connected, and empowered to do the best work of their lives.
From day one, Apple employees have access to our career development programs, ongoing inclusion and diversity education, and support throughout their career journeys.
Apple is actively evaluating and preparing for these disclosures, incorporating learnings to its existing programs.
These efforts, many of which began years ago, are reflected in Apple’s current policies and practices, which are detailed in Covington's report.
Beyond our business operations, due to its broad nature, the requested report would cover virtually every product and service Apple currently offers.
These reports include updates on Apple’s privacy program, risk management, and relevant legislative, regulatory, and technical developments.
At Apple, our North Star is creating great technology that empowers our customers and enriches their lives.
These efforts, many of which began years ago, are reflected in Apple’s current policies and practices, which are detailed in Covington's report.
Apple is soliciting proxies for use at the Annual Meeting, including any postponements or adjournments thereof.
Proxy Materials are Available on the Internet Apple uses the internet as the primary means of furnishing proxy materials to shareholders.
We encourage shareholders to take advantage of the availability of the proxy materials online to help reduce the environmental impact of our annual meetings and reduce Apple’s printing and mailing costs.
Apple’s proxy materials are also available at investor.apple.com.
Upon written or oral request, Apple will deliver promptly a separate copy of the Notice of Internet Availability and, if you requested printed versions by mail, this Proxy Statement and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2023 to any shareholder that elects not to participate in householding.
Proxy Solicitation Costs Apple is paying the costs of the solicitation of proxies.