Our innovations have shaped every era – from the web and mobile to cloud computing and Digital Media artificial intelligence (AI) – extending our product line to Digital content creation and consumption are exploding serve a growing universe of customers and drive revenue across every creative category, customer segment and growth.
Adobe Creative Cloud has always focused on personalized digital experiences is more critical than ever unleashing creativity for all and this past year we reached as digital continues to rapidly transform work, life and play.
The Adobe Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience launch of the Adobe Firefly family of creative generative AI Cloud are vital to the success of creators, communicators, models and their integrations across Creative Cloud drove students and entrepreneurs and mission-critical to tremendous customer excitement with over 4.5 billion businesses of all sizes.
Our rapid pace of product and AI model innovation the most inventive, diversified and profitable technology is empowering a wide and growing base of individuals, companies in the world.
students, creative professionals, small-business owners and enterprises to create and monetize amazing content more A MOMENTOUS 2023 quickly and easily.
Integrating these innovations natively into Fiscal year 2023 was another record year for Adobe, achieving our flagship applications including Photoshop, Lightroom, $19.41 billion in revenue, which represents 10% year-over- Illustrator, Premiere Pro and After Effects is extending our year growth, and marking our first-ever $5-billion revenue leadership in core creative categories such as imaging, design, quarter in Q4.
We achieved Digital all-in-one Adobe Express and Express for Enterprise creativity Media revenue of $14.22 billion, which represents 11% year- applications make it fast, easy and fun for any user to design over-year growth.
Digital Experience segment revenue was and share standout content.
The combination of Adobe $4.89 billion, representing 11% year-over-year growth.
We Express and Firefly is enabling everyone from creative pros exited the year with $17.22 billion in remaining performance to beginners to quickly move from ideation to task-based obligations.
engagement and accelerating product-led growth motions Widely regarded as one of the greatest inventors of our are bringing tens of millions of users into our digital media generation, John’s brilliance and innovations changed the ecosystem.
Adobe Document Cloud is accelerating In fiscal year 2023, our teams delivered incredible innovations document productivity and automation across web, at an accelerated pace.
Our rich data sets draw Web continues to be an incredible source of customer upon our investments across creativity, documents and acquisition, with monthly active users up over 70% year- customer experiences and enable us to train our AI models over-year.
Adobe Experience Cloud is powering models for creative content and to set new industry standards digital businesses and enabling them to drive profitable for output quality and user control through integrations growth by improving customer acquisition, engagement, across our industry-leading applications in Creative Cloud, retention and operational efficiency.
Experience Cloud offers Document Cloud and Experience Cloud.
Across our portfolio, a comprehensive portfolio of products that span the entire our people-centered approach to AI is making the world experience life cycle from marketing planning and workflows more creative, productive and personalized with AI assisting to data insights and audiences to content and commerce and amplifying human ingenuity.
With AI, we are empowering companies across experiences at scale.
We launched Adobe Product Analytics industries to anticipate and meet the expectations of their which combines customer journey insights with product customers in a way that is more engaging and personalized analytics to drive a new level of product-led growth and to the individual while simultaneously driving growth Adobe Mix Modeler arms marketers with an AI-powered, and profitability.
We debuted Adobe GenStudio to tackle self-service solution to accurately measure campaigns across one of the most complex and costly aspects of customer paid, owned and earned channels.
With generative AI, we’re engagement: the content supply chain—the process of bringing content and data for every brand as never before producing and delivering the content that fuels effective through Adobe GenStudio, integrating high-velocity creative customer experiences.
We’re helping customers and Advancement Initiative cohort of 11 international and embed the power of Firefly into their own content creation U.S. nonprofits to continue to foster racial and social justice and automation workflows though Firefly APIs.
Sensei GenAI services Colleges and Universities and Hispanic-Serving Institutions bring customer data and content together at scale, applying to address educational inequities, democratize digital and generative AI to an organization’s data unified in Adobe creative literacy as essential 21st century skills and to advance Experience Platform to create hyper-personalized experiences diversity in the technology and creative talent pipeline, that are campaign and channel specific.
make it significantly easier for any marketer to derive insights from customer journey analytics and apply these insights in Creativity for All: As the creativity company, we are uniquely real time to optimize their campaigns.
In addition to building foundational platforms, providing platforms to amplify their work and benefit from we are advancing collaboration with customers, partners and the mentorship of industry leaders through our Diverse community members and developing industry standards that Voices program, to the hundreds of creators we have drive broad impact across the digital ecosystem, adding value supported financially through our Adobe Creative Residency at multiple points in the marketplace.
There are three key areas where we innovations are developed and deployed with accountability, are uniquely positioned to make an impact: Adobe for All; responsibility and transparency.
We’re accelerating our momentum, delivering Adobe Magic to an expanding set of global customers and executing It’s been an exciting year at Adobe.
Adobe couldn’t be employees around the world embrace our new company better positioned for 2024 and beyond.
In calendar year 2023, our employee Shantanu Narayen donations and corporate grants and matches reached over Chair & CEO $33 million and employees completed over 200,000 hours Adobe Inc. of volunteer time, supporting over 10,500 organizations worldwide.
Content Credentials and Adobe’s approach to responsible AI were recognized by Fast Company as one of the year’s breakthrough innovations.