PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence (“AI”) available broadly and doing so responsibly.
We develop and support a broad portfolio of technology solutions for individuals and businesses, focusing on secure, trusted, and innovative platforms and tools that meet evolving customer needs across cloud computing, productivity and collaboration, and personal computing.
AI is fundamentally transforming productivity for every individual, organization, and industry.
Microsoft's AI offerings span every layer of the technology stack, enabling transformative outcomes across sectors and unlocking opportunity for every country, community, and individual.
What We Offer Founded in 1975, we develop and support software, services, devices, and solutions that deliver new value for customers and help people and businesses realize their full potential.
We offer an array of services, including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content, and we provide solution support and consulting services.
Our products include operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, and video games.
We also design and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
Digital transformation and adoption of AI continues to revolutionize more business workstreams for organizations in every sector across the globe.
For enterprises, digital technology empowers employees, optimizes operations, engages customers, and in some cases, changes the very core of products and services.
3 PART I Item 1 The Microsoft Cloud provides integration across the technology stack while offering openness, improving time to value, reducing costs, and increasing agility.
Our cloud business benefits from three economies of scale: datacenters that deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; datacenters that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy locations that lower application maintenance labor costs.
We prioritize security above all else and we offer our customers integrated AI-driven products addressing security, compliance, identity, management, and privacy across customers’ multi-cloud, application, and device assets.
• Build the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform to provide a foundation for our customers’ digital workloads including hybrid consistency, developer productivity, data and AI capabilities, and trusted security and compliance.
• Create more personal computing to enable users to interact with technology in more intuitive, engaging, and dynamic ways.
Our Future Opportunity We are focused on helping customers use the breadth and depth of the Microsoft Cloud to get the most value out of their digital spend while leading the AI platform wave across our solution areas.
We continue to develop complete, intelligent solutions for our customers that empower people to be productive and collaborate, while safeguarding businesses and simplifying IT management.
We are investing significant resources in: • Transforming the workplace to deliver new, modern, modular business applications, drive deeper insights, and improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, and interact with one another.
• Building and running cloud-based services in ways that utilize ubiquitous computing to unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals.
• Applying AI and ambient intelligence to drive insights, revolutionize many types of work and business processes, and provide substantive productivity gains using Microsoft 365 Copilot and agents.
• Inventing new gaming experiences that bring people together around their shared love for games on any device and pushing the boundaries of innovation with console and PC gaming.
• Leveraging Windows to fuel our cloud business, grow our share of the PC market, and drive increased engagement with our services like Microsoft Edge, Bing, Copilot, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Consumer, Xbox Game Pass, and more.
Commitment to Sustainability Microsoft is committed to sustainability and our approach to addressing climate change starts with the sustainability of our own business.
4 PART I Item 1 OPERATING SEGMENTS We operate our business and report our financial performance using three segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing.
These changes align our segments with how we currently manage our business, most notably bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together in the Productivity and Business Processes segment.
Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms.
This segment primarily comprises: • Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud, comprising Microsoft 365 Commercial, Enterprise Mobility + Security, the cloud portion of Windows Commercial, the per-user portion of Power BI, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance, and Microsoft 365 Copilot; and Microsoft 365 Commercial products, comprising Windows Commercial on-premises and Office licensed on-premises.
• Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions, Office licensed on- premises, and other consumer services.
• LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
• Dynamics products and cloud services, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications.
Microsoft 365 Commercial Products and Cloud Services Microsoft 365 Commercial is an AI-powered business and productivity solutions platform that brings together Office, Windows, Microsoft 365 Copilot, and Enterprise Mobility + Security to help organizations empower their employees.
Growth depends on our ability to reach new users in new markets such as frontline workers, small and medium businesses, and growth markets, as well as add AI-enabled tools, features, and agentic scenarios to our core product and service offerings across communication, collaboration, analytics, security, compliance, and other AI business productivity categories.
Microsoft 365 Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of continued installed base growth and average revenue per user expansion, as well as the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365.
Microsoft 365 Consumer Products and Cloud Services Microsoft 365 Consumer is designed to increase personal productivity and creativity through a range of products and services.
Growth depends on our ability to reach new users, add value to our core product set with new features including AI tools, and continue to expand our product and service offerings into new markets.
Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue and Office Consumer products revenue is mainly affected by the percentage of customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions.
Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue is also affected by the demand for communication and storage through Outlook.com and OneDrive, which is largely driven by subscriptions and advertising.
In addition to LinkedIn’s free services, LinkedIn offers monetized solutions designed to offer AI-enabled insights and productivity: Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
Dynamics Products and Cloud Services Dynamics provides cloud-based and on-premises business solutions for financial management, enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), customer relationship management (“CRM”), and supply chain management, as well as agentic AI and other low code application development platforms, for small and medium businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises.
Dynamics revenue is driven by the number of users licensed and applications consumed, expansion of average revenue per user, and the continued shift to Dynamics 365, a unified set of cloud-based intelligent business applications, including our low code development platforms, such as Power Apps and Power Automate.
Competition Competitors to Office include software and global application vendors, web-based and mobile application companies, AI-first application companies, as well as local application developers.
We compete by providing secure, integrated industry-specific, and easy-to-use productivity and collaboration tools and services that create comprehensive solutions and work well with technologies our customers already have both on-premises or in the cloud.
Windows faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices.
Our Enterprise Mobility + Security offerings compete with products from a range of competitors including identity vendors, security solution vendors, and numerous other security point solution vendors.
Dynamics competes with cloud-based and on-premises business solution providers.
Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that power modern business and developers.
This segment primarily comprises: • Server products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services, comprising cloud and AI consumption-based services, GitHub cloud services, Nuance Healthcare cloud services, virtual desktop offerings, and other cloud services; and Server products, comprising SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”), and other on-premises offerings.
• Enterprise and partner services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience.
6 PART I Item 1 Server Products and Cloud Services Azure is a comprehensive set of cloud services that offer developers, IT professionals, and enterprises freedom to build, deploy, and manage applications on any platform or device.
Customers can use Azure through our global network of datacenters for computing, networking, storage, mobile and web application services, AI, Internet of Things, cognitive services, and machine learning.
Azure enables customers to devote more resources to development and use of applications that benefit their organizations, rather than managing on-premises hardware and software.
Azure revenue is mainly affected by infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based services.
Azure AI offerings provide a competitive advantage as companies seek ways to optimize and scale their business with AI.
We offer supercomputing power for AI at scale to run large workloads, complemented by our rapidly expanding portfolio of AI cloud services (including the latest models) and hardware, which includes custom-built silicon and strong partnerships with chip manufacturers.
Our server products are designed to make IT professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient.
This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software.
We also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers.
Server products revenue is mainly affected by purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to OEMs, and retail packaged products.
GitHub and Nuance Healthcare include both cloud and on-premises offerings.
Enterprise and Partner Services Enterprise and partner services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience, assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server solutions, Microsoft desktop solutions, and Nuance conversational AI and ambient intelligent solutions, along with providing training and certification to developers and IT professionals on various Microsoft products.
Competition Azure faces diverse competition from cloud service providers and open source offerings.
Azure’s competitive advantage includes enabling a hybrid cloud, allowing deployment of existing datacenters with our public cloud into a single, cohesive infrastructure, and the ability to run at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities.
Our Azure Security offerings include our cloud security solution and security information and event management solution, which compete with providers in the cybersecurity and cloud security space.
We believe our cloud’s global scale, coupled with our broad portfolio of identity and security solutions, allows us to effectively solve complex cybersecurity challenges for our customers and differentiates us from the competition.
Our server products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches.
We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity, security, hosting, database, and e-business servers.
7 PART I Item 1 Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from providers in the data and analytics industry.
Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers.
Our products for software developers compete against offerings from major technology providers, as well as open source alternatives.
We believe our server products provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability.
Our Enterprise and partner services business competes with a wide range of companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies.
More Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology.
This segment primarily comprises: • Windows and Devices, including Windows OEM licensing (Windows Pro and non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel) and Devices, comprising Surface and PC accessories.
• Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first- and third-party content (including games and in-game content), Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming, advertising, and other cloud services.
In addition to computing device market volume, Windows OEM revenue is impacted by: • The mix of computing devices based on form factor and screen size.
We design and sell devices, such as Surface (including Copilot+ PCs) and PC accessories.
Our devices are designed to enable people and organizations to connect to the people and content that matter most using Windows and integrated Microsoft products and services.
Growth in Devices is dependent on total PC shipments, the ability to attract new customers, our product roadmap, and expanding into new categories.
8 PART I Item 1 Gaming Microsoft is expanding how billions of people globally access and play video games on PC, console, mobile, and cloud.
Our game content is developed through a collection of first-party studios creating iconic and differentiated gaming experiences.
We continue to invest in gaming studios and content to expand our intellectual property roadmap and leverage new content creators.
These unique gaming experiences are the cornerstone of Xbox Game Pass, a subscription service and gaming community with access to a curated library of first- and third-party titles.
The gamer remains at the heart of the Xbox ecosystem.
We are identifying new opportunities to attract gamers across a variety of different end points through our first- and third-party content and business diversification across subscriptions, ads, and digital stores.
We’ve seen new devices from third-party manufacturers along with key PC and mobile end points that help us empower gamers to play in a way that is most convenient to them.
We are focused on growing the platform and expanding to new ecosystems to engage as many gamers as possible.
Xbox enables people to connect and share online gaming experiences that are accessible on Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and other devices.
Xbox is designed to benefit users by providing access to a network of certified applications and services and to benefit our developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base.
Xbox revenue is mainly affected by subscriptions and sales of first- and third-party content, as well as advertising.
Growth of our Gaming business is determined by the overall active user base through Xbox enabled content, availability of games, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the devices used to access our content and services, and the ability to create new experiences.
In addition to first-party tools, we have several partnerships with companies through which we provide and monetize search offerings.
Competition Windows faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices.
We believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, and compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity.
Xbox and our cloud gaming services face competition from various online gaming ecosystems and game streaming services.
We also compete with other providers of entertainment services such as video streaming platforms.
Our gaming platform competes with other console platforms.
We believe our gaming platform is effectively positioned against, and uniquely differentiated from, competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong content from our own first-party game franchises as well as other digital content offerings.
Additionally, our culture prioritizes the security of both our customers and Microsoft, embedding this responsibility across all teams and functions.
OPERATIONS We have regional operations service centers in the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe, and the Middle East that support our business operations, including customer contract and order processing, billing, credit and collections, customer lifecycle AI and cloud operations, and vendor management and logistics.
In addition to our operations centers, we also operate datacenters throughout each of these regions.
We continue to align our datacenter locations and server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services.
Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other components.
Extended or unforeseen disruptions at these suppliers could impact our ability to operate our datacenters and manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Product and Service Development Our success is based on our ability to create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, enter new geographic and product markets, and drive broad adoption of our products and services.
We make significant investments in research and development for new and existing products, services, and technologies, including tools and platforms spanning digital work and life experiences, cloud computing, AI, devices, security, and operating systems.
We develop most of our products and services internally which allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services.
Before releasing new software platforms, and as we make significant modifications to existing platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing.
We may also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products and services.
DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, service providers, application developers, and OEMs.
We market and distribute our products and services through the following channels: direct, distributors and resellers, and OEMs.
Our sales organization performs a variety of functions, including working directly with commercial enterprises and public-sector organizations worldwide to identify and meet their technology and digital transformation requirements; supporting system integrators, independent software vendors, and other partners who engage directly with our customers to perform sales, consulting, and fulfillment functions for our products and services; and managing OEM relationships.
Direct Many organizations that license our products and services transact directly with us through Enterprise Agreements and Enterprise Services contracts, with sales support from system integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and partners that advise organizations on licensing our products and services (“Enterprise Agreement Software Advisors” or “ESA”).
Microsoft offers direct sales programs targeted to reach small, medium, and corporate customers, in addition to those offered through the reseller channel.
We also sell commercial and consumer products and services directly to customers, such as cloud services, search, and gaming, through our digital marketplaces and online stores.
Additionally, our Microsoft Experience Centers are designed to facilitate deeper engagement with our partners and customers across industries.
ESAs are also typically authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for our other volume licensing programs.
Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider is our main partner program for reselling cloud services.
We distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets.
We distribute our devices through third-party retailers.
Our Dynamics business solutions are also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services.
11 PART I Item 1 OEMs We distribute our products and services through OEMs that pre-install our software on new devices and servers they sell.
OEMs also sell devices pre-installed with other Microsoft products and services, including applications such as Office and the capability to subscribe to Microsoft 365 Consumer.
We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, and with many regional and local OEMs.
LICENSING OPTIONS We offer options for organizations of varying sizes that want to purchase our cloud services and on-premises software.
We license these organizations under volume licensing agreements to allow the customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services instead of having to acquire separate licenses through retail channels.
Software Assurance (“SA”) conveys rights to new software and upgrades for perpetual licenses released over the contract period.
It also provides support, tools, training, and other licensing benefits to help customers deploy and use software efficiently.
SA is required to be purchased with certain volume licensing agreements and is an optional purchase with others.
Volume Licensing Programs Enterprise Agreement Enterprise Agreements offer large organizations a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement.
Enterprise Agreements are designed for medium or large organizations that want to license Microsoft products and services organization-wide over a three-year period.
Organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses (covered with SA) and/or subscribe to cloud services.
Microsoft Customer Agreement Microsoft Customer Agreements are simplified purchase agreements presented, accepted, and stored through a digital experience.
Microsoft Customer Agreements are non-expiring agreements that are designed to support all customers over time, whether purchasing through a partner or directly from Microsoft.
Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement Microsoft Online Subscription Agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to subscribe to, activate, provision, and maintain cloud services seamlessly and directly via the web.
These agreements allow customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based services.
Microsoft Products and Services Agreement Microsoft Products and Services Agreements are designed for medium and large organizations that want to license cloud services and on- premises software as needed, with no organization-wide commitment, under a single, non-expiring agreement.
Organizations purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses.
SA is optional for customers that purchase perpetual licenses.
12 PART I Item 1 Open Value Open Value agreements are a simple, cost-effective way to acquire the latest Microsoft technology.
These agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software over a three-year period.
Under Open Value agreements, organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses and SA is included.
Organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA is optional.
Partner Programs The Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider Program offers customers an easy way to license the cloud services they need in combination with the value-added services offered by their systems integrator, managed services provider, or cloud reseller partner.
Partners in this program can easily package their own products and services to directly provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions.
The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement allows hosting service providers and independent software vendors who want to license eligible Microsoft software products to provide hosted applications and software services to their end customers.
Partners license software over a three-year period and are billed monthly based on units licensed.
The Independent Software Vendor Royalty Program enables partners to integrate Microsoft products into other applications and then license the unified business solution to their end users.
Prior to that, Mr. Numoto served as a Corporate Vice President for Office 365 Marketing from 2004, where he led the transformation from traditional on-premises packaged software to the introduction of Office 365.
• Announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies.
We publish a variety of reports and resources related to our Corporate Social Responsibility programs and progress on our Reports Hub website, www.microsoft.com/corporate-responsibility/reports-hub, including reports on responsible AI, sustainability, responsible sourcing, accessibility, digital trust, and public policy engagement.
Barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services.
Competition among platform-based ecosystems An important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions.
A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth.
• A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the hardware and software elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as PCs, tablets, smartphones, gaming consoles, wearables, and other endpoint devices.
Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces.
They may also be able to claim security and performance benefits from their vertically-integrated offer.
We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services.
• We derive substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating systems on PCs.
We face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablets.
Popular products or services offered on competing platforms could increase their competitive strength.
In addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our OEM partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform.
• Competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases.
The variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions.
Users may incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms.
Efforts to compete with competitors’ content and application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins.
Competitors’ rules governing their content and applications marketplaces may restrict our ability to distribute products and services through them in accordance with our technical and business model objectives.
• A material part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices.
• Even as we transition more of our business to infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business models, the license- based proprietary software model generates a substantial portion of our software revenue.
We bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products.
Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model.
• Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services, and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising.
Advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at little or no cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.
• Some companies compete with us by modifying and then distributing open source software at little or no cost to end users, developing, making available, or using AI models that are open, and earning revenue on advertising or integrated products and services.
Some open source products mimic the features and functionality of our products.
Our focus on cloud-based and AI services presents execution and competitive risks.
We are incurring significant costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud-based and AI services, reducing operating margins.
Whether we succeed in cloud-based and AI services depends on our execution in several areas, including: • Continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based and AI services and products that generate increasing traffic and market share.
• Maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based and AI services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices.
• Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers.
• Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations and specific requirements of our customers and maintain the security of their data as well as help them meet their own compliance needs.
• Making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors.
In addition, some users may also engage in fraudulent or abusive activities through our cloud-based and AI services, such as unauthorized account access, payment fraud, or terms of service violations including cryptocurrency mining or launching cyberattacks.
While we are committed to detecting and controlling such misuse of our cloud-based and AI services, our efforts may not be effective, and we may incur reputational damage or experience adverse impacts to our business and results of operations.
We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including AI-based products and services.
We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment, including PCs, tablets, and gaming devices.
If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue.
We could experience significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services.
The success of these transactions and arrangements depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones, as well as the acquired companies’ ability to meet our policies and processes in areas such as data governance, privacy, digital safety, responsible AI, and cybersecurity.
18 PART I Item 1A CYBERSECURITY, DATA PRIVACY, AND PLATFORM ABUSE RISKS Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position.
These actors use a wide variety of methods, which include developing and deploying malicious software; exploiting known and potential vulnerabilities or intentionally designed processes in our or third-party hardware, software, or other infrastructure to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters; using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose sensitive information, such as passwords, or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data; or acting in a coordinated manner or conducting coordinated attacks.
Inadequate account security or organizational security practices, including those of companies we have acquired or those of the third parties we utilize, have resulted and may result in unauthorized access to our systems and data, including customer systems and data.
We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer- oriented technologies.
Security of our products, services, devices, and customers’ data The security of our products and services is important in our customers’ decisions to purchase or use our products or services across cloud and on-premises environments.
The reliability of our cloud-based services and the protection of customer data depend on the security of our infrastructure, which includes hardware and other elements provided by third parties.
In addition, adversaries can attack our customers’ on-premises or cloud environments, sometimes exploiting previously unknown (“zero-day”) vulnerabilities.
Adversaries will continue to attack customers using our cloud services as customers embrace digital transformation.
Inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access, and user activity may result in ransomware or other malicious software impacting a customer’s use of our products or services.
Our customers operate complex systems with third-party hardware and software from multiple vendors that may include systems acquired over many years.
They expect our products and services to support all these systems and products, including those that no longer incorporate the strongest current security advances or standards.
Further, customers of widely varied sizes and technical sophistication use our technology, and consequently may still have limited capabilities and resources to help them adopt and implement state-of-the-art cybersecurity practices and technologies.
Cyberattacks could adversely impact our customers even if our production services are not directly compromised.
We are committed to notifying our customers whose systems have been impacted as we become aware and have actionable information for customers to help protect themselves.
20 PART I Item 1A Development and deployment of defensive measures To defend against security threats to our internal infrastructure, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, we must take a complex and multifaceted approach.
The cost of these measures to protect products and customer-facing services could reduce our operating margins.
Customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services.
As we continue to grow the number, breadth, and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personal data of our customers and users.
Our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or in a cloud-based environment we host.
Despite our efforts to protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities.
Additional security measures we take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may increase costs or hinder sales of our products and services.
LinkedIn and other Microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures.
Our products and services, how they are used by customers, and how third-party products and services interact with them, may present security, privacy, and execution risks.
Our customers also operate complex systems with third-party hardware and software from multiple vendors whose products or personnel may take or fail to take actions which impact the reliability or security of our products and services.
22 PART I Item 1A Issues in the development, deployment, and use of AI may result in reputational or competitive harm or liability.
We are building AI into many of our offerings, including our productivity services, and we are also making AI available for our customers to use in solutions that they build.
We envision a future in which AI operating in devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers be more productive in their work and personal lives.
Our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power.
We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters.
Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units and other components.
These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth and the augmentation of existing services, including through the incorporation of AI features and/or functionality.
We are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users.
It requires that we maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure and storage and compute capacity that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve.
Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, outages, insufficient Internet connectivity, insufficient or unavailable power or water supply, or inadequate storage and compute capacity could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
There are limited suppliers for certain device and datacenter components.
We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services.
Datacenter servers, Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other hardware are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages which could adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our customers increasingly rely on us for critical business functions and multiple workloads.
Many of our products and services are interdependent on one another.
Our products and services may be impacted by interaction with third-party products and services.
Our customers may also utilize their own or third-party products and services whose reliability is dependent on interaction with our products and services.
Our hardware products such as Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other devices we design and market are highly complex.
We are subject to a wide range of laws, regulations, and legal requirements in the U.S. and globally, including those that may apply to our products and online services offerings, and those that impose requirements related to user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, digital accessibility, advertising, and online safety.
This trend may continue with our offerings becoming subject to additional data protection, security, digital safety, law enforcement surveillance, and other obligations.
In addition, laws requiring us to retrieve and produce customer data in response to compulsory legal demands from law enforcement and governmental authorities are expanding and the requests we are experiencing are increasing in volume and complexity.
U.S. export controls restrict Microsoft from offering many of its products and services to, or making investments in, certain entities in specified countries.
The potential replacement of the recently rescinded AI Diffusion Rule and other potential AI-related rulemakings could adversely affect Microsoft’s business, strategy, and operations.
New and evolving rules and restrictions on the flow of data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services.
New requirements related to the use of data, including the Data Act, add additional rules and restrictions on the use of data in our products and services.
These claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases, AI services, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, employment practices, and regulation.
To resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty-bearing data access or licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers.
Damage to our reputation or our brands may occur from, among other things: • The introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like.
• Data security breaches, cybersecurity incidents, responsible AI failures, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees.
Our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network.
Providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans and magnifies the potential negative consequences of prolonged service outages.
Changes in climate where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services.
28 PART I Item 1A Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees.
We have made it the top corporate priority to protect the computing environment used by our customers and employees and to support the resiliency of our cloud infrastructure and services, products, devices, and our internal corporate resources from determined adversaries.
Our computing environments, products, and services are reviewed by our internal audit teams as well as independent third-party assessors.
We continuously monitor our computing environments, products, and services for vulnerabilities and signs of compromise, and we utilize our own security products to combat cybersecurity threats.
We integrate security into our computing environments, products, and services through our Security Development Lifecycle (“SDL”).
We require third-party service providers to manage their cybersecurity risks in defined ways, undergo cybersecurity reviews, notify us of cyber events, and satisfy additional contractual requirements.
We also establish processes and innovate solutions for us and our customers to address the growing number and complexity of cybersecurity regulations.
As discussed above, our business strategy is tied to the SFI and we are committed to continuously monitoring cybersecurity threats, enhancing the security of our products, investing in our cybersecurity infrastructure, and collaborating with peers, customers, service providers, regulators, and governments to advance our and the entire digital ecosystem’s cybersecurity defenses and resiliency.
Our CISO leads the strategy, engineering, and operations of cybersecurity across the company, and reports to the EVP of Cloud + AI.
OVERVIEW Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence (“AI”) available broadly and doing so responsibly, with a mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more.
We create platforms and tools, powered by AI, that deliver innovative solutions that meet the evolving needs of our customers.
We generate revenue by offering a wide range of cloud-based solutions, content, and other services to people and businesses; licensing and supporting an array of software products; delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience; and designing and selling devices.
Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; supporting and investing in our cloud-based services, including datacenter operations; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our other products and services; and income taxes.
Highlights from fiscal year 2025 compared with fiscal year 2024 included: • Microsoft Cloud revenue increased 23% to $168.9 billion.
• Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 14% driven by Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue growth of 15%.
• Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased 11% driven by Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue growth of 11%.
• Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased 15% driven by Dynamics 365 revenue growth of 19%.
• Server products and cloud services revenue increased 23% driven by Azure and other cloud services revenue growth of 34%.
At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces.
Microsoft and OpenAI maintain a long-term strategic partnership originally established in 2019.
Microsoft is a major investor in OpenAI, and the companies have reciprocal revenue-sharing arrangements.
We hold rights to OpenAI’s intellectual property, including models and infrastructure, for integration into our products.
The OpenAI API is exclusive to Azure, runs on Azure, and is available through the Azure OpenAI Service.
35 PART II Item 7 Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive.
Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses.
The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, influencing how users access services in the cloud and, in some cases, the user’s choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use.
Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is also correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic.
The investments we are making in cloud and AI infrastructure and devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins.
We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services.
Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other components.
Reportable Segments We report our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing.
These changes align our segments with how we currently manage our business, most notably bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together in the Productivity and Business Processes segment.
These changes align our metrics with how we manage and monitor certain businesses.
The key change was bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together and creating a new Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue growth metric.
Other changes include combining Windows OEM and Devices into a single revenue growth metric that brings revenue from PC market-driven businesses together, as well as elevating our cloud revenue growth metrics to align to our strategic focus on cloud growth.
Commercial Our commercial business primarily consists of Server products and cloud services, Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Dynamics products and cloud services, and Enterprise and partner services.
Commercial remaining performance obligation Commercial portion of revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods Microsoft Cloud revenue and revenue growth Revenue from Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud, Azure and other cloud services, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, and Dynamics 365 Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage Gross margin percentage for our Microsoft Cloud business Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud Metrics related to our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments assess the health of our core businesses within these segments.
The metrics primarily reflect growth across our cloud services.
Intelligent Cloud revenue increased driven by Azure.
Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased driven by Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud.
More Personal Computing revenue increased driven by Gaming and Search and news advertising.
Cost of revenue increased $13.7 billion or 19% driven by growth in Microsoft Cloud.
• Gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by Intelligent Cloud, offset in part by More Personal Computing.
• Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage decreased to 69% driven by the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure, offset in part by efficiency gains in Azure.
Operating expenses increased $3.8 billion or 6% driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering and Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
38 PART II Item 7 SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Percentage (In millions, except percentages) 2025 2024 Change Productivity and Business Processes Revenue $ 120,810 $ 106,820 13% Cost of revenue 22,422 19,611 14% Operating expenses 28,615 27,548 4% Operating Income $ 69,773 $ 59,661 17% Intelligent Cloud Revenue $ 106,265 $ 87,464 21% Cost of revenue 40,171 29,611 36% Operating expenses 21,505 20,040 7% Operating Income $ 44,589 $ 37,813 18% More Personal Computing Revenue $ 54,649 $ 50,838 7% Cost of revenue 25,238 24,892 1% Operating expenses 15,245 13,987 9% Operating Income $ 14,166 $ 11,959 18% Total Revenue $ 281,724 $ 245,122 15% Cost of revenue 87,831 74,114 19% Operating expenses 65,365 61,575 6% Operating Income $ 128,528 $ 109,433 17% Reportable Segments Fiscal Year 2025 Compared with Fiscal Year 2024 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $14.0 billion or 13%.
• Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $10.8 billion or 14%.
Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue grew 15% with Microsoft 365 Commercial seat growth of 6% driven by small and medium businesses and frontline worker offerings, as well as growth in revenue per user.
Microsoft 365 Commercial products revenue grew 7% driven by the Windows Commercial on-premises components of Microsoft 365 suite sales and an increase in Office transactional purchasing with the launch of Office 2024.
• Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $756 million or 11%.
Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue grew 11% driven by Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriber growth of 8% to 89.0 million, as well as growth in revenue per user from the price increase announced in January 2025.
• Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased $996 million or 15% driven by growth in Dynamics 365, offset in part by a decline in Dynamics on-premises products.
Dynamics 365 revenue grew 19% with growth across all workloads.
• Cost of revenue increased $2.8 billion or 14% driven by growth in Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud.
• Gross margin increased $11.2 billion or 13% driven by growth in Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud.
Gross margin percentage decreased slightly primarily driven by the impact of scaling our AI infrastructure, offset in part by efficiency gains in Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud.
• Operating expenses increased $1.1 billion or 4% driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering and commercial sales.
39 PART II Item 7 Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $18.8 billion or 21%.
• Server products and cloud services revenue increased $18.6 billion or 23% driven by Azure and other cloud services.
Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 34% driven by demand for our portfolio of services.
Server products revenue decreased 3% driven by a decrease in transactional purchasing with continued customer shift to cloud offerings.
• Cost of revenue increased $10.6 billion or 36% driven by growth in Azure.
• Operating expenses increased $1.5 billion or 7% driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering.
More Personal Computing Revenue increased $3.8 billion or 7%.
• Gaming revenue increased $2.0 billion or 9% driven by growth in Xbox content and services, offset in part by a decline in Xbox hardware.
Xbox content and services revenue increased 16% driven by the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition and Xbox Game Pass.
• Operating expenses increased $1.3 billion or 9% driven by Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
Research and development expenses also include technology development costs, including AI training and other infrastructure costs, third-party development and programming costs, and the amortization of purchased software code and services content.
40 PART II Item 7 Fiscal Year 2025 Compared with Fiscal Year 2024 Research and development expenses increased $3.0 billion or 10% driven by investments in cloud and AI engineering and Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
Fiscal Year 2025 Compared with Fiscal Year 2024 Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.2 billion or 5% driven by investments in commercial sales and Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
Fiscal Year 2025 Compared with Fiscal Year 2024 General and administrative expenses decreased $386 million or 5% driven by Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition.
Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include cloud services and Software Assurance (“SA”).
The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of June 30, 2025: (In millions) Three Months Ending September 30, 2025 $ 25,191 December 31, 2025 19,733 March 31, 2026 13,742 June 30, 2026 5,889 Thereafter 2,710 Total $ 67,265 If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable.
(d) Purchase commitments primarily relate to datacenters and include open purchase orders and take-or-pay contracts that are not presented as construction commitments above.
Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff.
We will continue to invest in capital expenditures to support growth in our cloud offerings and our investments in AI infrastructure and training.
We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment.
Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time.
Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation.
Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
These changes align our segments with how we currently manage our business, most notably bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together in the Productivity and Business Processes segment.
Revenue Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Product revenue includes sales from operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and server management tools, software development tools, video games, and hardware such as PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories.
Service and other revenue includes sales from cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content such as Office 365, Azure, Dynamics 365, and gaming; solution support; and consulting services.
Service and other revenue also includes sales from online advertising and LinkedIn.
We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Nature of Products and Services Licenses for on-premises software provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists when made available to the customer.
Customers may purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses, which provide customers with the same functionality and differ mainly in the duration over which the customer benefits from the software.
Revenue from distinct on-premises licenses is recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer.
In cases where we allocate revenue to software updates, primarily because the updates are provided at no additional charge, revenue is recognized as the updates are provided, which is generally ratably over the estimated life of the related device or license.
Cloud services, which allow customers to use hosted software over the contract period without taking possession of the software, are provided on either a subscription or consumption basis.
Revenue related to cloud services provided on a subscription basis is recognized ratably over the contract period.
Revenue related to cloud services provided on a consumption basis, such as the amount of storage used in a period, is recognized based on the customer utilization of such resources.
When cloud services require a significant level of integration and interdependency with software and the individual components are not considered distinct, all revenue is recognized over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Certain volume licensing programs, including Enterprise Agreements, include on-premises licenses combined with Software Assurance (“SA”).
SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades released over the contract period and provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use products more efficiently.
On-premises licenses are considered distinct performance obligations when sold with SA.
Revenue allocated to SA is generally recognized ratably over the contract period as customers simultaneously consume and receive benefits, given that SA comprises distinct performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
In these cases, the hardware and software license are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to resellers or directly to end customers through retail stores and online marketplaces.
When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time.
Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation.
Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided.
Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include cloud services and SA.
Unearned revenue also includes payments for consulting services to be performed in the future, LinkedIn subscriptions, Office 365 subscriptions, Xbox subscriptions, Windows post-delivery support, Dynamics business solutions, and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.
Examples include invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, and multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes: costs incurred to support and maintain cloud-based and other online products and services, including datacenter costs and royalties; manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related to product support service centers and product distribution centers; traffic acquisition costs to drive traffic to our websites and to acquire online advertising space; and costs associated with the delivery of consulting services.
Activision Blizzard is a leader in game development and an interactive entertainment content publisher.
The acquisition will accelerate the growth in our gaming business across mobile, PC, console, and cloud gaming.
Activision Blizzard is reported as part of our More Personal Computing segment.
The goodwill was primarily attributed to increased synergies that are expected to be achieved from the integration of Activision Blizzard.
70 PART II Item 8 NOTE 8 — GOODWILL Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows: June 30, June 30, June 30, (In millions) 2023 Acquisitions Other 2024 Acquisitions Other 2025 Productivity and Business Processes $ 31,359 $ 0 $ 2 $ 31,361 $ 0 $ 96 $ 31,457 Intelligent Cloud 25,676 0 (28) 25,648 0 41 25,689 More Personal Computing 10,851 51,235 125 62,211 0 152 62,363 Total $ 67,886 $ 51,235 $ 99 $ 119,220 $ 0 $ 289 $ 119,509 We have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business.
NOTE 12 — UNEARNED REVENUE Unearned revenue by segment was as follows: (In millions) June 30, 2025 2024 Productivity and Business Processes $ 50,567 $ 43,599 Intelligent Cloud 14,022 13,683 More Personal Computing 2,676 2,902 Total $ 67,265 $ 60,184 We have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business.
NOTE 13 — LEASES We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment.
Microsoft cooperated throughout the period of inquiry.
During the periods presented, we reported our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing.
Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms.
This segment primarily comprises: • Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud, comprising Microsoft 365 Commercial, Enterprise Mobility + Security, the cloud portion of Windows Commercial, the per-user portion of Power BI, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance, and Microsoft 365 Copilot; and Microsoft 365 Commercial products, comprising Windows Commercial on-premises and Office licensed on-premises.
• Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions, Office licensed on- premises, and other consumer services.
• LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions.
• Dynamics products and cloud services, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications.
82 PART II Item 8 Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that power modern business and developers.
This segment primarily comprises: • Server products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services, comprising cloud and AI consumption-based services, GitHub cloud services, Nuance Healthcare cloud services, virtual desktop offerings, and other cloud services; and Server products, comprising SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”), and other on-premises offerings.
• Enterprise and partner services, including Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, Nuance professional services, Microsoft Partner Network, and Learning Experience.
More Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology.
This segment primarily comprises: • Windows and Devices, including Windows OEM licensing (Windows Pro and non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel) and Devices, comprising Surface and PC accessories.
• Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first- and third-party content (including games and in-game content), Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming, advertising, and other cloud services.
These allocated costs generally include legal, including settlements and fines, information technology, human resources, finance, excise taxes, field selling, shared facilities services, customer service and support, and severance incurred as part of a corporate program.
84 PART II Item 8 Revenue, classified by significant product and service offerings, was as follows: (In millions) Year Ended June 30, 2025 2024 2023 Server products and cloud services $ 98,435 $ 79,828 $ 65,007 Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services 87,767 76,969 66,949 Gaming 23,455 21,503 15,466 LinkedIn 17,812 16,372 14,989 Windows and Devices 17,314 17,026 17,147 Search and news advertising 13,878 12,306 12,125 Dynamics products and cloud services 7,827 6,831 5,796 Enterprise and partner services 7,760 7,594 7,900 Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services 7,404 6,648 6,417 Other 72 45 119 Total $ 281,724 $ 245,122 $ 211,915 Our Microsoft Cloud revenue, which includes Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud, Azure and other cloud services, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, and Dynamics 365, was $168.9 billion, $137.7 billion, and $111.6 billion in fiscal years 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively.
These amounts are included in Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services, Server products and cloud services, LinkedIn, and Dynamics products and cloud services in the table above.
The Company offers customers the ability to acquire multiple licenses of software products and services, including cloud-based services, in its customer agreements through its volume licensing programs.
Significant judgment is exercised by the Company in determining revenue recognition for certain customer agreements, and includes the following: • Determination of whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together, such as software licenses and related services that are sold with cloud-based services.
• Identification and treatment of contract terms that may impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized (e.g., variable consideration, optional purchases, and free services).
• We evaluated management's significant accounting policies related to certain customer agreements for reasonableness.
MICROSOFT CORPORATION /s/ ALICE L. JOLLA Alice L. Jolla Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Registrant and in the capacities indicated on July 30, 2025.
Name Where Incorporated Microsoft Ireland Research Unlimited Company Ireland Microsoft Global Finance Unlimited Company Ireland Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited Ireland Microsoft Online, Inc. United States LinkedIn Corporation United States LinkedIn Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland Activision Blizzard, Inc. United States Activision Publishing, Inc. United States Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation; 2.
I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Microsoft Corporation; 2.