We'll also be marketing to support that heavier slate, and we're continuing to aggressively build out our ad sales infrastructure and capabilities through the year.
We also think that we are an incredible entertainment value, not only compared to traditional entertainment, but if you think about other streaming competitors, when we start at $7.99 in the United States and you think about all of the entertainment you get, we have a belief and expectation that the demand for not only entertainment, but for us, specifically will remain strong.
And what are advertisers excited about, growing scale is something we definitely hear.
So bigger audience, but also an audience that's more engaged relative to our peers.
The rollout of our own ad tech stack, which helps deliver a bunch of features and then our slate, which is generally amazing and includes a growing number of live events that advertisers are excited about.
How have advertisers in the U.S. responded to the Netflix Ad Suite rollout since the April launch?
As we mentioned before, the most immediate benefit from this rollout is just making it easier for advertisers to buy on Netflix.
We hear that benefit, that ease from direct feedback talking to advertisers.
We're also, I guess, worth noting that we're going to roll out additional demand sources like Yahoo!, that will further open up the market for us.
There's also leveraging advertiser and third-party data sources, which we definitely hear demand for as well.
And it will ultimately allow us to improve the ad experience for our members, which is critically important.
So that's all to say this is a pretty significant milestone for us, one we're super excited to get behind us because now we can shift into the steady release cycle where we're dropping new features all the time, both for advertisers and for members.
Throughout the rollout of paid sharing and amidst increasing competition for TV time is more viewing moves to streaming and gets this on-demand benefit.
And are you confident that both original and licensed content momentum can continue in 2026?
On the first part of your question, we're definitely riding this long-term trend of linear to streaming and that has a natural adoption curve, but we can accelerate our growth with big hits.
And over the past few years, you're right, we've been able to maintain our share even as we work through a growing number of TV-based streaming services, some free, some paid and the impact of paid sharing that Greg mentioned earlier, as well as this 2025 slate that was more back-half weighted than we typically have in previous years.
But over the long term, we tend to keep growing as the other 50% of TV viewing migrates from linear to streaming.
It is our objective to sustain healthy revenue growth, reinvest in the business to improve on all aspects of the service.
We want to provide more content, more variety, more quality.
You can think live, ads, the new UI, among other things.
So live is a relatively small part of the total content spend, and we've got about 200 billion view hours.
There's lots of available infrastructure to produce TV, and that is true of live events and sports as well.
He asks, Netflix continues to broaden content genres, notably with live sports and the recently announced TF1 partnership.
Is there a path to additional tiers of service based on types of content available?
Or will Netflix always make all content available at the ad-free/ad-supported price points?
It allows folks to opt into what the -- is the right Netflix for them.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 10 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2025 EARNINGS CALL JUL 17, 2025 Also, how do we provide good accessibility to new members around the world we want to grow, and that means making sure that we've got accessible price points.
It allows members around the world to access a wide range of entertainment in a very easy way, at a very reasonable price.
From Rich Greenfield, the Lightshed partners, help us understand why your new UI/UX is so important as you expand live content.
Bluntly, the previous experience was designed for the Netflix of 10 years ago, and the business has evolved considerably since then.
Helping our members understand that there's a really good reason for them to launch Netflix and tune in at 7:00 p.m. on a Friday night versus just showing up whenever they were free and wanted to be entertained.
Add to that, we saw the opportunity to leverage newer technologies like real-time recommendations that respond dynamically to what you need from us in that specific moment.
YouTube is the only streamer that exceeds Netflix in terms of U.S. share of TV time.
So for those creators doing great work, we have phenomenal distribution, desirable monetization, brilliant discovery in our UI and a hungry audience waiting to be entertained.
So whether it's linear or streamers or video games or social media, it's also a very dynamic competitive market, as we and all of our competitors seek to provide better and better options for consumers.
And one of those changes, one of those vectors of dynamicism has been that sort of steady inevitable shift to streaming and on-demand as more services move to deliver their content in a way that we all know consumers want.
We also see free services as a form of strong competition.
And back to your specific question, it's worth remembering there's about 80% of total TV view share that neither Netflix or YouTube are winning right now.
We look at the near-term monetization opportunity with games very similar to how we've looked at other new content categories.
We've been pretty clear in the past that we also have no interest in owning legacy media network.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14 NETFLIX, INC. FQ2 2025 EARNINGS CALL JUL 17, 2025 Copyright © 2025 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.