○ We have completed the rollout of the Netflix Ads Suite, our proprietary first-party ad tech platform, across all our ads markets.
Year-over-year revenue growth was primarily a function of more members, higher subscription pricing and increased ad revenue.
This in turn drives engagement on Netflix and when people watch more and love what they watch, they stick around longer (retention), recommend Netflix to others (acquisition) and place a higher value on our service.
We monetize this engagement through both subscription and advertising revenue.
Korean content continues to be popular with our audience.
We publish our top titles based on views each week at Netflix Top 10.
● Our titles have staying power, with nearly half of the viewing of Netflix originals coming from titles launched in 2023 or earlier.
At Netflix, our content strategy is “local for local”—developing shows and films that deeply connect with audiences in their home countries.
We recently announced a partnership with leading local broadcaster TF1 in France which will allow us to offer TF1’s linear channels and on-demand content to our French members as part of their Netflix subscription without having to leave our service.
The wide variety of additional content will include local titles and genres like soap operas, big weekly competition shows and major live sports programming such as the UEFA Nations League that is incremental to what we offer our members today.
The event generated over 4 1.4 billion global impressions across Netflix and talent social media channels, highlighting the enthusiasm our audiences have for our upcoming slate over the remainder of the year.
We've had a design that has served us very well over a decade, but our new TV experience is simpler, more intuitive and better represents the breadth of entertainment on Netflix today.
5 We have already rolled out our new interface to a broad subset of TV devices that access Netflix, and ~50% of members have used the new experience.
Over time, we expect this redesigned experience—along with our new responsive recommendations that update rows of titles in real time—will help our members more easily find shows, movies, live events and games they want to watch and play.
Monetization As we deliver more value to members, we continue to refine our plans and pricing to improve monetization which in turn allows us to reinvest to make Netflix even better for our members.
We continue to make progress building our ads business and still expect to roughly double ads revenue in 2025.
A key focus this year is enhancing our capabilities for advertisers.
We completed the rollout of the Netflix Ads Suite, our in-house first-party ad tech platform, to all of our ads markets and early results are in-line with our expectations.
We believe our ad tech platform is foundational to our long-term ads strategy and, over time, will enable us to offer better measurement, enhanced targeting, innovative ad formats and expanded programmatic capabilities.
We’re pleased with the results which are consistent with our goal to roughly double ads revenue this year.
Clients are excited about our growing scale, the successful rollout of our tech stack, as well as our upcoming programming slate.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and engage and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively, including for consumer engagement with different modes of entertainment; failing to improve the variety and quality of entertainment offerings; adoption of the ads plan and paid sharing; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks; macroeconomic conditions; content slate and timing of content releases.