For more information on those risks, please review today's earnings release and Adobe's SEC filings.
Adobe delivered another strong quarter, achieving record revenue of $5.87 billion, representing 11% year-over-year growth.
At our Investor Meeting in March, we outlined our growth strategy for the company centered on delivering transformative innovation for diverse customer audiences: business professionals, consumers, creators, creative professionals and marketing professionals.
The creative opportunity is expanding across audiences with AI as an accelerant.
It is opening the content floodgates, tapping into everyone's imagination and massively expanding the number of creative assets being created, edited, integrated and delivered.
There are billions of business professionals and consumers in the world who want to be both creative and efficient to accomplish their objectives.
Adobe pioneered creative storytelling through groundbreaking applications like Photoshop and Illustrator and digital document sharing with the introduction of PDF and Acrobat.
Our strategy is to bring productivity and creativity to life for billions of users across a variety of surfaces.
Adobe's monthly active users across these categories now exceed over 700 million users.
In the creative and marketing professionals group, creative professionals need best of breed applications that enable them to bring their ideas to life across media types, including imaging, design, video, photography, illustration, animation, 3D and more.
Adobe is delivering a comprehensive creative platform that extends from ideation through creation to mass production and delivery to address this content supply chain opportunity.
We rolled out new Firefly offerings globally and will be delivering more innovation over the next few months.
Paired with Creative Cloud apps, the Firefly App empowers creative professionals with enhanced precision and performance, ready to support them whenever and wherever inspiration strikes.
The Firefly App is attracting new users to the Adobe franchise with first-time subscribers growing 30% quarter-over-quarter.
Our Digital Experience business was inspired by our vision to enable this creative output to be delivered at scale by enterprises as part of their digital marketing transformation.
We have a unique advantage and opportunity to integrate creativity, marketing and AI to deliver customer experience orchestration.
Marketing professionals need to create an unprecedented volume of compelling content and optimize it to deliver personalized digital experiences, across channels, including mobile apps, email, websites, social media and 4 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2025 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q2 2025 Earnings Call 12-Jun-2025 advertising platforms.
They're looking for agility and self-service, as well as integrated workflows with their creative teams and agencies.
Marketing practitioners, Chief Marketing Officers and Chief Digital Officers need solutions that enable them to acquire, engage and delight customers across a variety of channels and geographies.
Adobe's strategy is to deliver a comprehensive marketing technology platform leveraging AI to offer vertical solutions that integrate content, customer data and profiles across journeys in both B2B and B2C industries.
Adobe GenStudio and Firefly Services are revolutionizing the content supply chain across enterprises, empowering marketers to activate personalized, on-brand content across millions of touchpoints.
Adobe's differentiation lies in our best of breed, industry-leading applications across web content management, analytics, customer data platforms, commerce, journey orchestration and workflow management.
We're infusing AI in each of these solutions and combining creativity and marketing in GenStudio by bringing together creative ideation and production, workflow, asset management, content delivery and content analytics in a seamlessly integrated offering.
While our AI-influenced ARR is already contributing billions of dollars, our AI book of business from AI-first products such as Acrobat AI Assistant, Firefly App and Services and GenStudio for Performance Marketing is tracking ahead of the $250 million ending ARR target by the end of fiscal 2025.
In Q2, Digital Media achieved revenue of $4.35 billion, which grew 12% year- over-year.
We continue to see strong performance across our business professionals and consumers group, where users are increasingly turning to Adobe for products that combine creativity and productivity.
Virtually every business professional and consumer stands to benefit from AI-assisted consumption, visually rich creation and natively integrated collaboration.
A social media marketer can ask AI Assistant for help identifying buying behaviors in market research documents and use that information to create better TikTok videos in Express.
As a result, we're seeing steady growth across our family of Acrobat and Express products, with combined monthly active user growth accelerating to over 25% year-over-year and crossing 700 million monthly active 5 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2025 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q2 2025 Earnings Call 12-Jun-2025 users, as Acrobat users increasingly rely on Acrobat AI Assistant to enhance content consumption and Express to create richer PDFs, customized presentations and animated designs.
Due to increasing customer demand for creative functionality through Acrobat, we saw an approximately 3x quarter-over-quarter and approximately 11x year-over-year increase in the adoption of Express capabilities within Acrobat.
Subscription revenue for the business professionals and consumers group grew 15% year-over-year.
We're rapidly acquiring the next generation of business professionals and consumers across individuals, small and medium business and enterprises.
These products are also seeing strong adoption by businesses with over 35,000 new businesses added in Q2.
Express alone added around 8,000 new businesses this quarter, approximately 6x growth year-over-year, including companies such as Microsoft, ServiceNow, Workday, Intuit and top sports leagues like MLB, the NFL and Premier League.
Other highlights include: Acrobat PDF link sharing MAU grew over 20% year-over-year, helping to drive viral adoption; use of generative AI features continues to grow quickly with AI Assistant MAU in Acrobat and generative AI MAU in Express growing over 3x year-over-year; Acrobat AI Assistant engagement continues to accelerate with the number of questions asked nearly doubling quarter-over-quarter; the Express ecosystem continues to expand with partner add-ons growing more than 25% quarter-over-quarter with new integrations from Google Ads, Vimeo and Bitly; select key global customer wins include Cisco, County of Los Angeles, the Defense Information Systems Agency, Macys and Ulta Beauty.
Demand for creative capabilities across mediums, including imaging, design, photography, video, illustration and 3D, is on the rise as individuals and businesses need visually compelling content to stand out in a crowded media landscape.
As a result, the Firefly App is becoming the creative AI destination for Creative Cloud customers and new users alike to explore, ideate, create and collaborate with AI-first workflows across media types.
To monetize this incredible innovation, we have introduced a comprehensive set of offerings aimed at new and existing creators and creative professionals across all routes to market.
The new Firefly App subscription plans are ideal for creators starting their creative journey and are now globally available.
Creative Cloud Pro, which combines Creative Cloud All Apps and the Firefly App, represents the best value for content creation and is now available in North America.
Creative Cloud Pro will be released in other geographies over the next few months.
Traffic to the Firefly App grew over 30% quarter-over-quarter and paid subscriptions nearly doubled in the same period; Firefly continues to drive new user acquisition, with first-time Adobe subscribers growing more than 30% quarter-over-quarter; we launched Photoshop mobile and released major updates to our flagship Creative Cloud Apps including Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere Pro, After Effects and Substance at MAX London, garnering over 350 million video views across social media; excitement for and adoption of generative AI innovation, such as Generative Fill in Photoshop, Generative Remove in Lightroom, Generative Expand in Illustrator, Generative Extend in Premiere Pro, video generation in the Firefly App and production workflows in Firefly Services, continues to accelerate with over 24 billion cumulative generations exiting Q2.
Key customer wins include Cisco, County of San Diego, DEPT Holding, Fanatics, Infosys, Schwarz Global Sourcing and Wells Fargo.
Creativity fuels the global economy and is the foundation of how marketers engage with their customers effectively across channels.
As a result, we're seeing high enterprise demand for and adoption of Firefly Services and Custom Models to automate and scale on-brand content production for marketing use cases.
Adobe is uniquely positioned to lead the way in applying AI to amplify creativity across the full continuum of content creation.
We're excited about the momentum we're seeing in both flagship apps and new offerings across our business professionals and consumers and creative and marketing professionals groups.
Our growing base of monthly active users, accelerating use of generative AI, steady influx of new customers, inclusion of partner models and accelerating adoption of automation services drove a strong quarter with Digital Media revenue of $4.35 billion and we are pleased to raise our revenue target for the year.
Experience Cloud had a strong Q2, achieving revenue of $1.46 billion for the quarter.
Subscription revenue in the quarter was $1.33 billion, representing 11% year-over-year growth and making us the largest provider in our category.
Adobe is the only company unifying the entire workflow from creation and production, workflow and planning, asset management, delivery and activation through to reporting and insights.
We launched GenStudio Foundation, a unified interface to bring together data from our full suite of content supply chain applications, providing visibility and actionable insights into campaign plans, projects and assets.
GenStudio for Performance Marketing empowers teams to create their own on-brand content, supporting ad creation and activation for Google, LinkedIn, Meta, Microsoft, Snap and TikTok.
Adobe Experience Platform and native applications are central to delivering unified, personalized customer experiences.
These innovations empower our customers to leverage their first-party customer data and deliver more relevant, high-impact advertising experiences rooted in direct customer relationships.
We unveiled 10 agents, purpose-built for creative, marketing, and technology teams, that leverage Adobe Experience Platform to act intelligently and in alignment with business goals.
Enterprises are looking for a technology partner and platform to unify fragmented solutions and unlock greater efficiency and value.
Leading enterprise players including AWS, Microsoft, SAP and ServiceNow have endorsed Adobe as their partner for customer experience orchestration.
We've activated our global partner ecosystem, spanning top-tier technology and media companies, system integrators and leading agencies, to accelerate customer experience orchestration.
Today, I'll start by summarizing Adobe's performance in Q2 fiscal 2025, highlighting growth drivers across our businesses, and I'll finish with financial targets.
In Q2, Adobe achieved revenue of $5.87 billion, which represents 11% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
Second quarter business and financial highlights included: Digital Media revenue of $4.35 billion; Digital Media ending ARR of $18.09 billion, growing 12.1% year-over-year; Digital Experience revenue of $1.46 billion; cash flows from operations of $2.19 billion, which is a record for Q2; and exiting the quarter, remaining performance obligations were $19.69 billion, growing 10% year-over-year, or 11% in constant currency and cRPO growing 10% as reported and in constant currency.
In our Digital Media segment, we achieved Q2 revenue of $4.35 billion, which represents 11% year-over-year growth, or 12% in constant currency.
We exited the quarter with $18.09 billion of Digital Media ARR, growing our ending ARR book of business 12.1% year-over-year in constant currency.
Within Digital Media, second quarter growth drivers for business professionals and consumers included: greater than 25% year-over-year growth in monthly active users driven by PLG optimization of the combined Acrobat and Express freemium funnel; strong acquisition, usage and monetization of our AI offerings, including Acrobat AI Assistant, Acrobat Premium and Express; accelerating adoption of Express creative functionality through Acrobat driving approximately 11 times year-over-year growth of monthly active users due to increasing customer demand; record mobile app store performance for Acrobat and Express combined, growing ending ARR greater than 40% year-over-year; and strong adoption of Acrobat and Express by individuals, SMBs and enterprises across geographies.
Within Digital Media, second quarter growth drivers for creative and marketing professionals included: growth of Creative Cloud flagship offerings driven by CC All Apps, Photoshop and Lightroom, with particular strength in emerging markets driven by Latin America, India and Eastern Europe; growing traction of the newly launched Firefly App web subscription and Photoshop mobile offerings; significant usage of Firefly in our Creative Cloud and Firefly Apps with total generations crossing 24 billion exiting the quarter; and rapid acceleration of creative and marketing automation with Firefly Services integrated with GenStudio in the enterprise.
9 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2025 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q2 2025 Earnings Call 12-Jun-2025 Turning to our Digital Experience segment, in Q2, we achieved revenue of $1.46 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
Digital Experience subscription revenue was $1.33 billion, growing 11% year-over-year as reported and in constant currency.
Within Digital Experience, second quarter growth drivers for marketing professionals included: industry demand for Customer Experience Orchestration solutions requiring integrated offerings across content, data and journeys; driving higher value from AI-infused Prime and Ultimate tiered offerings with existing and new customers; AEP and apps subscription revenue growing greater than 40% year-over-year; strong adoption of GenStudio with greater than 25% year-over-year growth in ARR; and increasing customer value ensuring strong customer retention.
Adobe's success is being driven by innovation in service of both business professionals and consumers and creative and marketing professionals.
For the business professionals and consumers group, subscription revenue was $1.60 billion, which represents 15% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
For the creative and marketing professionals group, subscription revenue was $4.02 billion, which represents 10% year- over-year growth, or 11% in constant currency.
Additionally, historical subscription revenue for these customer groups is now available in the Adobe Investor Relations data sheet under supplementary customer group data dating back to FY 2023.
For Q3 FY 2025, we are targeting: total Adobe revenue of $5.875 billion to $5.925 billion; Digital Media segment revenue of $4.37 billion to $4.40 billion; Digital Experience segment revenue of $1.45 billion to $1.47 billion; Digital Experience subscription revenue of $1.35 billion to $1.36 billion; GAAP earnings per share of $4 to $4.05; and non-GAAP earnings per share of $5.15 to $5.20.
As a result of us driving strong performance in the first half of the year, we are pleased to raise our targets for FY 2025 total revenue, Digital Media segment revenue and EPS, as well as reaffirm Digital Experience subscription and segment revenue and Digital Media ending ARR growth for the year.
Additionally, we're on pace to surpass $250 million in AI-first direct ARR book of business exiting the year.
For FY 2025, we are now targeting: total Adobe revenue of $23.50 billion to $23.60 billion; Digital Media segment revenue of $17.45 billion to $17.50 billion; Digital Media ending ARR book of business growth of 11.0% year-over- year; Digital Experience segment revenue of $5.80 billion to $5.90 billion; Digital Experience subscription revenue of $5.375 billion to $5.425 billion; GAAP earnings per share of $16.30 to $16.50; and non-GAAP earnings per share of $20.50 to $20.70.
As we've talked about for quite a while, we're seeing an absolute explosion in the demand for content creation and more and more visually rich content creation.
I noticed on the Adobe Stock website that volume of video content really took off during Q2 positively, and I'm interested in just what you see happening there to drive the contributor uploaded content higher?
I'm just curious if you have any view that that might validate the Adobe strategy of being commercially safe and having the content authenticity, and if you think there is any ramifications of that?
We want to make sure and help them monetize content, the content they create in any way possible, because we think it's just good for the industry.
One of the things that we've been doing over the last many years is taking Adobe Stock from being this independent capabilities and just integrating it throughout so more users get more value, and the demand for content as it continues to grow is really at their fingertips.
And as a result, if someone is using Express or if someone is using Creative Cloud or if someone's using Firefly Boards, they're able to access this incredible set of content that's being developed by the community.
David, I was wondering if you can just walk through sort of the initial reaction to the change on the Creative Cloud Pro.
And one of the things that we've talked about is that historically, Creative Cloud was a single offer, whether it was Creative Cloud All Apps or Creative Cloud Pro, really doing double duty or triple duty across the entire ecosystem of people wanting to create content.
And so, we've been very methodically over the last couple of years extending the offering line-up, right, so that we can meet the needs of business professionals and consumers with Acrobat and Express, we can meet the needs of creators with the new Firefly plans that we've released recently, whether it's Firefly Standard for, in the US, $10, Firefly Pro for $20, or Firefly Premium, which is unlimited access to video generation as well for $200 a month.
And for creative pros, we've been adding very steadily, we've been adding more and more of these capabilities directly in the tools, the desktop tools they know and love and use every single day.
We talked about the fact that we've crossed 24 billion generations to-date, and as a result, we've been able to introduce the Creative Cloud Pro plan, which is a higher priced plan, but it has a lot more value integrated into the ecosystem of the desktop applications, but it also comes with the Firefly application as well.
We talked about 2x subs growth there, 30% growth in terms of new users to Adobe quarter-over-quarter for Firefly.
In terms of the pricing part of that equation, we talked about the increased value that we have in Creative Cloud Pro that gives us some opportunity to match the value we're providing with the pricing.
And then in terms of the value is around Firefly Services and GenStudio.
The thing to note is that, as we go down this path, some of this will take some time to play out because we have – for the quantity side, we have freemium and lower priced offers, but we're starting to see the early signs of that.
And if you do the math and I'll maybe turn it over to Dan, if you do the math, our core Creative business subscription revenue has been accelerating over the past few quarters.
And just to build on that, David, if you take a look at the supplemental disclosure that we provided, between the subscription revenue for creative and marketing professionals, the subscription revenue for DX, you can pretty quickly derive what the subscription revenue is for the Creative and Creative Pro audience that we serve.
I wanted to ask about how you're thinking about overall GenAI usage versus monetization.
So, just help us think through the monetization and kind of that usage incentivization dynamics here.
The AI influence revenue is already in the billions, because that speaks to the value that people are getting across both our DX products, Acrobat products, as well as the Creative products.
And as we get this entire offering that we keep talking about, which is Acrobat, Express, Firefly Single App, Creative Cloud Pro, which includes Firefly, GenStudio and the AEP and Apps, each one of them we think has tremendous opportunity ahead of us.
And then with respect to outside of your traditional competitive environment, maybe just coopetition with vendors like Meta, where it – at least it's a little harder for some investors to understand given their increasing usage of AI to automate kind of ad creation and campaign optimization.
What we've been doing over the last few years is taking that data-driven operating model that we've been – that we've perfected in terms of the web journeys and really reallocating it, all of the – a significant part of what we've 15 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2025 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q2 2025 Earnings Call 12-Jun-2025 learned there from top-of-funnel generation to performance marketing, to conversion and retention to virality, that entire ecosystem has been flowing very well.
We talked about how 8,000 – we onboarded into 8,000 new businesses in the quarter with Express.
And what's really great about that is it's really part of an enterprise-wide content supply chain sale where Express is integrated with AEM, Express is integrated with Workfront.
I think the two things that I'll just maybe add to that is, first, as it relates to even, I think, what you're calling the low end, when you consider the business professionals and consumers, the amount of MAU that we have is very significant.
So, I just wanted to make sure that you understand that, because they also use a lot of the products that are perhaps referred to within the creative professional.
But I think to your other point, as it relates to the amount of content that's being created for digital advertising and the third party support, we've already announced a whole bunch of third party support.
And every sort of advertising platform, if that's what I can call it, once the Adobe partnership as it relates to GenStudio for Performance Marketing, I think initially you'll probably see SMEs go with perhaps a more proprietary channel.
But I think across each one of these channels, we're going to be the one company that people look at to make sure that in a seamless collaboration, they can post, whether it's to Microsoft, whether it's to Google, whether it's to Snap, TikTok, Meta, you name all of them, Amazon.
As all of these come online, they will be using our GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
As Shantanu mentioned, in terms of the ad platforms, obviously, their primary goal is to grow the ad revenue.
The best way to do that is to make sure that the Creative is optimized and the ROI from the advertisers' perspective is clear to the advertisers, which is where our marketing stack and everything that we're doing around GenStudio for Performance Marketing comes together really well.
You guys talked about the changes in the All Apps Creative Cloud pricing already being reflected in the guidance.
And there's an ability for people to sort of upsell to the Pro or sort of get a lower priced edition with the Standard.
I mean, I think as it relates to creative professional, we want CC Pro to be the sweet spot for where the majority of users will go.
So, that's the other thing that you have to think about and as we roll that out and in different regions, but from our perspective, we want CC Pro and Firefly App to be the sweet spot of how this emerges.
But we also believe that CC Standard as well as Firefly Single App will continue to be meaningful parts of the business and an onramp to the other.
I mean, as you think about what we've done with our DME revenue, there are two things that are impacting the strength in the revenue.
The vast majority of the benefit is really happening as a result of how we're driving ARR and the revenue conversion for the business.
When you look at it also in the new model that we're providing by customer segments and you think about what's happening between the business professional and consumer and what's happening on creative and marketing professionals, you saw I think the revenue growth was 15% and 10% or 11%, depending on whether you take as reported or constant currency.
What has really been gratifying for us to see is when you look at the creative subscription revenue growth, now that you have these additional disclosures, you will see relative to Q2 of 2024 versus 2023 and then you look at it as Q2 of 2025 versus 2024, it's also at 10% growth.
So, as I think about the growth initiatives, Brent, to answer your question, on the business professional and consumer, the things that you have to think about is AI and AI Assistant first with a single document, with multiple documents, increasing the relevance and usage of Acrobat.
And the impact of the content and the marketing business, we continue to be really bullish about it.
I mean, I think if Dan were answering that question, he would say, as you look at the Q1 versus – Q2 versus Q1 expense, you'll see that we're investing in the right areas, given the innovation roadmap, being able to ensure that we, in conjunction with the launches, market the product.
So, the marketing investment is clearly as a result of making sure that we invest a lot more to ensure that the launches that we have and the product roadmap that we have, the awareness is high.
And when you look at the targets for AI, the $125 million book of business projected to go to $250 million, is there any evidence at all that you can point to with your DDOM or maybe other sources that the push towards AI, be it through Firefly or GenStudio, is actually visibly, tangibly, quantifiably moving the pace of creative adoption and driving business to a larger degree than what's possible without AI.
So, in other words, you have an AI bucket of revenue, which is what it is, and the core.
But where could we be wrong in not seeing that change of that curve and the adoption that you might be seeing and may not be manifested in financial metrics, but maybe you see things under the hood that give you the conviction that we're at the beginning of that curve of adoption that could lead the company to a phase of growth that we kind of saw in the 2014, 2018 timeframe when people wrongly extrapolated the flattish trends in the on-prem business and then the cloud really just took off, right?
If you build a new book of business that's going from $0 to $250 million, I think most people would say that's pretty phenomenal because these are products, whether it's Acrobat, AI Assistant, the new Firefly App, Firefly Services, which continues to rock frankly and GenStudio for Performance Marketing.
What is the scale at which we're driving, whether it's campaigns, whether it's engagement through email or SMS, the amount of transactions that are going through AEP and apps, and all of that is because the agility of marketing and the ability to personalize these experiences with customers is dramatically increasing.
That, as we've always said, is sort of this influence revenue.
But the influence revenue and the underlying usage point to the fact that adoption is good.
And then on the new ones, hey, are we building these new businesses that allow us to create new offerings like CC Pro, like Acrobat with AI Assistant and Acrobat in AI Assistant and Express.