We achieved record share of TV time in Q3 in both the U.S. and the U.K. We recorded our best ad sales quarter ever.
We are now on track to more than double ad revenue this year.
It sounds super simple, but building a real at-scale global streaming business is hard because you got to combine great tech product and great content from all around the world, and we believe we can continue to improve in both of those areas.
It pushes us to improve the service even faster for our members.
Back at the beginning in the early DVD days even and now in streaming and global streaming of original content, we could be with the biggest players in the world, tech and media.
I'll move us along to a few questions we've received on the topic of advertising.
While, of course, it's still off a small base relative to the size of our subscription revenue.
The rollout of our ad tech stack means we've got more formats.
Your offering to advertisers has evolved significantly in 2025, including the launch of the ad suite and the integrations with the additional demand sources.
As we look into next year, what are some of the key priorities for the advertising business?
Consistent with the last comment and answer, we made considerable progress in building out our general capabilities in the ad space.
The rollout of the ads suite, our own ad suite has been great because it means we're just continuing to learn and improve the stack based on client feedback.
Key priorities and focus for us is making it easier for advertisers to buy on our service.
We want to increase the diversity of advertisers we have.
We're adding more demand sources like Amazon DSP, AJA in Japan.
We're improving our own ad sales and go-to-market capabilities.
So more ways to buy, more data for targeting and media planning capabilities globally more modular in interactive ad formats with enhanced AI capabilities and more measurement functionality in all of our markets.
And quite frankly, we expect we're going to be able to move more quickly than other streamers as we leverage pre-existing tech and data science assets and expertise.
Our fill rates improving in line with your expectations as the Netflix Ads Suite and new demand partnerships scale up.
Now we believe we've got a better understanding of the streaming business than any of our competitors, but we're also continuing to learn.
We're going to continue to benefit long term from the trend, just so folks moving from linear viewing to streaming that has a kind of a natural adoption curve.
How should we think about the recent deal with Spotify how aggressively will you build out this podcast category?
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2025 EARNINGS CALL OCT 21, 2025 So this deal is a video co-exclusive partnership with Spotify and secures a curated selection of their top podcast to help us provide even more entertainment options for our members when they're looking for a pop culture or lifestyle or sports or true crime, and we get to deliver to them wherever and however they want to watch.
And we're going to build into this category like we do with our other categories based on demand signals that we get from our members.
And we see this as really the opportunity to integrate high-quality video broadcast that broadens the Netflix offering beyond all the incredible films and series that Ted just mentioned beyond the live events that we are building, stand-up specials and games.
However, we've said earlier, live is only a small portion of our content spend, and it's a very small portion of our 200 billion hours viewed.
While we still await an official MLB update, can you help us think about the importance of global sports rights versus local rights to Netflix?
On the -- as far as advertising is concerned, the #1 important thing we have to do is thrill our audiences.
We -- the revenue from advertising or subscription is a reward for thrilling the audience.
We recently -- we meaning, Rich, recently opened Netflix and were prompted with a 4K upgrade screen.
What implications might that have for Netflix's content strategy and differentiation?
Second, if it's IP, does it strengthen our entertainment offering?
We've been very clear in the past that we have no interest in owning legacy media networks, so there's no change there.
We're trying to figure out how we build better product experiences that can serve consumers better around the world.
Should potential industry consolidation with embedded studio and streaming assets could that lead to less third-party content accessibility for Netflix?
And that's why we continue to grow and expand the original content investment across new genres, new content forms in multiple geographies.
But it's worth noting that we've always seen these kind of ebbs and flows from third-party content in terms of access to it.
So we've been dealing with that since the beginning of streaming.
And more importantly, I think, is that we've proven time and time again, that licensing to Netflix is the best way to build audience, build revenue and create value for your IP whether it's Suits or Peaky Blinders or Breaking Bad, we played a very positive role in the life cycle of other folks IP, and we suspect that dynamic will continue.
Netflix recently launched party games that are playable on the TV.
And going forward, we're building on top of that foundation, but focusing on offering more high-quality games and few key genres and targeting the right cohort of users.
Got games for kids, this is Peppa Pig, no ads, no in-app payments, safe within your subscription.
Last quarter, you talked about Netflix being a great place for some creators on YouTube.
Should we expect more on this front and what kinds of content are you looking for?
But now we -- and we also have created a curated-like section of video podcast as well.
The first part comes from Doug Anmuth of JPMorgan, who's asking how has your thinking evolved over the past couple of years about Netflix's ability to leverage AI and related, John Hodulik at UBS asks, what are your thoughts on the impact from Sora 2 and other new AI content creation apps in terms of increased competition from short-form video, do you think it creates new competition from an engagement standpoint?
We've got scaled consumer products, scaled business processes.
And those targeted areas of investment are better product experiences, content production and advertising.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14 NETFLIX, INC. FQ3 2025 EARNINGS CALL OCT 21, 2025 Copyright © 2025 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
No content (including index data, ratings, credit-related analyses and data, research, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively, S&P Global).
S&P Global and any third-party providers, (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content.