We are building on Disney’s value proposition in streaming by combining Hulu into Disney+ to create a unified app experience featuring branded and general entertainment, news, and sports, resulting in a one-of-a-kind entertainment destination for subscribers.
We are building ESPN into the preeminent digital sports platform with our highly anticipated direct-to-consumer sports offering launching on August 21st, and our just announced plans with the NFL that would expand ESPN’s programming and content offerings for fans.
Turning to our streaming business, today we are announcing a major step forward in strengthening our streaming offering by fully integrating Hulu into Disney+.
This will create an impressive package of entertainment, pairing the highest caliber brands and franchises, great general entertainment, kids programming, news, and industry leading live sports content, all in a single app.
By creating a differentiated streaming offering, we will be providing subscribers tremendous choice, convenience, quality, and enhanced personalization, while at the same time continuing to grow profitability and margins in our entertainment streaming business through expected higher engagement, lower churn, operational efficiencies, and greater advertising revenue potential.
Over the coming months, we will be implementing improvements within the Disney+ app, including exciting new features and a more personalized homepage, all of which will culminate with the unified Disney+ and Hulu streaming app experience that will be available to consumers next year.
Page 4 Q3 FY25 Earnings Conference Call August 6, 2025 The other key component of our streaming strategy is sports, and on August 21st, we will launch ESPN’s direct-to-consumer offering, making ESPN’s full suite of networks and services directly available to fans for the first time.
And fans with subscriptions to the Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN bundle will be able to watch ESPN content directly inside Disney+.
ESPN will also gain the ability to sell and bundle NFL+ Premium, which includes NFL RedZone, to ESPN DTC subscribers, along with rights to additional non-exclusive preseason NFL games for its DTC offering, both starting in the 2025 season.
And an additional agreement extends ESPN’s NFL Draft rights, with the ability to stream ESPN and ABC’s draft coverage on ESPN DTC, Hulu, and Disney+.
Can you talk a little bit about how you see this playing out in terms of revenue growth, subscriber growth and the benefits you think it means to the business?
Because of the acquisition of the NFL Network, not only will we continue to distribute it from a linear perspective, but it will be fully, essentially included in, or ingested within the ESPN direct-to-consumer app.
So those games, the seven games that are on, that will be on, the NFL Network will all be part of ESPN's direct-to-consumer offering.
And that includes smooth integration with fantasy, with betting, and a combination of our fantasy businesses, by the way, with stats, with the ability to basically personalize SportsCenter with NFL highlights, I could go on and on, a commerce opportunity off of the ESPN app to buy NFL merchandise.
Bob, can you talk more about how you can accelerate DTC growth by fully integrating Hulu into Disney+, and the related subscriber and advertising revenue opportunities?
Just curious also, what does that mean for the future of Hulu as a stand-alone app?
Page 10 Q3 FY25 Earnings Conference Call August 6, 2025 And it also provides us with a tremendous bundling experience because when you have the one app that has a significant amount of all of the Disney and the other Disney branded programming with the general entertainment programming bundled for instance, with the ESPN direct-to-consumer app, I think you end up with a proposition from not only a consumer perspective, but also from our perspective that's far better than what we've had before.
But clearly, you're going to make it available to your Pay TV partners as well.
Page 11 Q3 FY25 Earnings Conference Call August 6, 2025 So, I'm curious if you can talk about your expectations for engagement with the app from people who come from outside the ecosystem like cord cutters versus those inside, and how it benefits you to have people who pay for Pay TV to also engage with the app?
We're at a point, given the way we're operating our businesses where we don't really look at being in the linear business and the streaming business; we're in the television business.
And what we're doing is we're giving our customers or our viewers a chance to watch our programming really, as Hugh just said, wherever they want.
And that gives us an opportunity to not only run them more efficiently, but to aggregate sub fees and advertising revenue across a very, very broad range of television distribution platforms.
My guess is sports are going to be going up with things like WWE, and then, of course, content is the lifeblood of the company.
So, any good way to think about content spend as we look out for the next 12 months or so?
Our priority is to put out great movies that ultimately resonate with consumers.
Given the attractive pricing for the service from an ESPN DTC bundle standpoint, can the launch of the ESPN platform accelerate growth on the DTC side either from a subscriber standpoint or from an engagement standpoint?
We won’t predict exactly how much, but for $29.99, you can get Disney+, Hulu and ESPN, which is an incredible, incredible bargain for the consumer.
The other thing we haven't even touched upon is that with the NFL deal, we have the ability to bundle NFL+ Premium service, which includes RedZone digitally, and we'll bundle that with the trio bundle of Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN, and with ESPN.
So, we're building a bigger base of consumers, it's also one of the best experiences that we offer across our Experiences business.
I wondered if you could comment on engagement trends regarding – or of your existing subscribers on Disney+ and Hulu, and how your current DTC strategies could contribute to those trends?
We're also experimenting like crazy, where we're basically trying different elements out on consumers and getting data back from them in order to figure out what works the best.
In addition, we've added Streams, which was a technological advancement.
There are some great Streams – you can watch, I think, thirty-some-five seasons or whatever it is of The Simpsons on one Stream, as for instance, that's also something that increases engagement.
So one, we're going to brand the general entertainment from Star to Hulu across the world, for instance.
As we grow engagement and reduce churn in the U.S., that presents opportunities from a marketing spend perspective, some of which can be basically reinvested into international content.
Operating income for Entertainment SVOD DTC businesses (excluding our Hulu Live DMVPD service) is a non-GAAP financial measure and consists of the operating income for the Direct-to-Consumer line of business at the Entertainment segment less our Hulu Live DMVPD service.
Or even bundling with others like Fox launching their own sports offering, for instance, is that an opportunity for you to bundle other sports offerings in the market and consolidate streaming more broadly?
But, obviously, we're not only interested in growing engagement and growing our own subs, but we're interested in serving consumers better as well, and the more sports can be offered in one destination for the consumer, or if we can improve the ease of use for consumers, ease of finding things – because as a devoted sports fan, I often have to work to try to find where – what platform sports are on – if we can help that – if we can help consumers in that regard, we're certainly going to try.