This quarter also marked a huge milestone for us as we hit over 100 million subscribers in Europe - our largest region.
By constantly evolving, we create more and more value for the almost 700 million people using our platform.
This value not only benefits users but it’s attracting more people to streaming…and as a result, it’s also boosted the industries of music, podcasts, and audiobooks.
First, big picture, the business is solid and our model holds up - and I feel really good about where we stand and how consumers view Spotify.
We still expect 2025 to be a standout year for Spotify.
And this quarter brings us one step closer to that goal of a billion subscribers.
Looking ahead, we’ll keep pushing boundaries through innovation, bringing even more value to users and creators.
This expands the overall Spotify network as we build a larger, more vibrant platform that benefits everyone - where fans gain access to more of what they love and creators have a global audience to reach.
But let me also take a step back to remind you how we run Spotify: our approach has always been—and will continue to be—focused on creating lifetime value rather than optimizing for quarter-to-quarter performance.
Many of the initiatives driving today’s strong user and subscriber growth were started several quarters or even years ago.
As you heard, we are excited about the user and subscriber growth we saw this quarter.
Over 3% of all the world’s population subscribes to Spotify.
It’s also awesome to see that we continue to uncover new Subs growth opportunities even in our developed, mature markets.
I’ve spent a lot of time over the last couple of months meeting with brand partners and there’s a lot of excitement about working with Spotify - especially with automated ads and all the new tools we recently introduced.
We have an enviable brand and a highly engaged, loyal user base that advertisers want to tap into.
In fact, we’ve grown monthly active advertisers by more than 40% year over year.
And with the heavy lifting on our ad tech largely complete, we are focused on driving adoption, launching new tools for advertisers, and improving performance of all of our inventory in order to fully monetize our new biddable channels.
Now I’ll pass it to Gustav to share some insights around some of the ways that we’re increasing the value for users and creators.
Our overall user growth story is a testament to our teams who have been hard at work to deliver the best possible experience to users, artists, creators and authors.
The data clearly shows that the more content formats we deliver for users, the more engaged they become.
This is especially true with super users who are not only spending more time, but even more days on Spotify.
Looking at our core business of music, excluding China and Russia, 45% of people who pay for a music streaming service subscribe to Spotify according to MIDiA research.
There are now more than 430,000 video podcasts on Spotify and video continues to outperform with consumption trending higher and higher….
Growing 20x faster than audio-only consumption since 2024.
More than 350 million users have streamed a video podcast on our platform, a 65% increase year over year.
For example, listeners have been telling us just how much they love Spotify’s DJ - and user engagement with DJ has nearly doubled over the past year.
Spotify Premium users wanted more than a one-way channel with DJ - they wanted a dialogue.
So we delivered….and now, in more than 60 markets, DJ takes music requests, serving up suggestions using AI and insights from our global editorial experts.
Now, you can ask the DJ questions that require Spotify to understand the wider world, like “Play me that song where Bruce Springsteen invites that fan up on stage in the music video” and DJ will understand that you are requesting Dancing in the Dark.
We also clearly see that the more people interact with DJ, the better and longer their sessions get.
This has resulted in a nearly 45% increase in DJ streams globally, driving tens of millions of interactions to date.
We also continued to expand our popular AI Playlist to Premium listeners bringing it over 40 new markets and millions of users have responded by – creating playlists with this tool.
Previously, when we constructed algorithmic playlists for our users, we were confined to guessing the tracks the user would want based only on the user’s past listening, signals such as plays, saves and skips.
These are often things that would’ve been impossible for us to understand from listening data.
Imagine trying to guess “Make a playlist with songs to pump you up on earnings day in late July when your family is on summer holiday without you “ just by looking at my listening history!
We’ve already done our first round of optimization on AI playlists and saw clear jumps in performance (such as people listening longer to the resulting playlists, saving them more often, etc.).
And because of the experience we deliver, and the combined strength of our subscription and free tiers, it’s no surprise that, according to Luminate, 65% of global audio music streams happen on Spotify.
We added 8 million net Subscribers finishing at 276 million, up 12% Y/Y and 3 million ahead of our guidance.
Our Premium revenue rose 16% Y/Y on a constant currency basis, driven by subscriber growth and ARPU gains associated with price increases.
Our automated sales channels were the largest contributors to overall advertising growth.
If we exclude the near-term impacts from strategic initiatives, like optimization of our licensed podcasts and the rollout of the Spotify Partner Program, we had low double digit constant currency advertising growth.
Our margin expansion was driven by Premium Revenue growth outpacing music and audiobook costs, partially offset by Spotify Partner Program costs.
Additionally, our Ad-Supported margin expanded due to podcast and music gains.
Our top-of-funnel and subscriber performance are strong, and we remain confident in our ability to drive healthy growth.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ225.