Engagement continues to strengthen across music, podcasts, video, and audiobooks.
That drives better user outcomes - more growth, higher engagement, stronger retention.
Our Q3 results once again highlight just how well positioned Spotify is as we keep pushing boundaries through innovation and bringing even more value to artists, podcasters, authors, and users around the world.
Gustav and I shared our thoughts about Spotify’s future and how we’ll evolve over the next few years.
These efforts are driving user growth across the top of the funnel, which then propels the flywheel and fuels the strength of our overall business.
When you look at MAU in isolation, the global rollout of our enhanced Free experience was a key contributor, bringing millions of new listeners into the Spotify ecosystem.
It’s having a huge impact on engagement and retention, which we know is the key leading indicator of even more growth and conversion.
On the subscriber side, we saw continued growth across all regions and users are spending more days and more hours on Spotify than ever before.
These results show the power of the product and the loyalty of our subscribers.
And as we look at the growth across these three content verticals, I want to share a few highlights: In music, we continue to help artists reach massive global audiences.
And we continued our partnership with FC Barcelona, which unites fan communities around the world, proving to be a strong user recruitment tool for Spotify.
Over the quarter, we finalized groundbreaking direct license deals bringing value to artists, songwriters, rightsholders and Spotify.
What’s good for Spotify is also good for the industries we support: music, podcasts, and audiobooks.
In podcasts, more than 390 million users have streamed a video podcast on Spotify, a 54% increase year over year.
We now have almost 500,000 video podcast shows on our platform.
Time spent with video content has more than doubled year over year—driven mostly by video podcasts.
And this consumption has increased by more than 80% since the launch of the Spotify Partner Program in January of this year.
We also recently announced that we are bringing some of our top video podcasts from Spotify Studios and The Ringer to Netflix starting in early 2026 in the US, with more markets to follow.
We want our creators to grow and scale their audiences around the world and in turn, this also opens up an interesting monetization opportunity for Spotify.
This partnership extends our ecosystem, building new fans and serving up wider distribution channels.
And in audiobooks, we’re continuing to reshape the category, fueling growth and discovery across the publishing world.
In just two years, Spotify has introduced tens of millions of new, younger listeners to audiobooks.
We’ve brought audiobooks to 14 global markets and have more than tripled our catalog in English-language markets to over 500,000 titles.
More than half our eligible Premium users have played an audiobook and the number of people listening to an audiobook rose 36% year over year, with listening hours up even more.
We also recently launched add-on subscriptions for Premium users, giving listeners more choice, opening up the format to new potential fans worldwide and enhancing the experience itself.
We’re seeing faster growth, higher efficiencies, and a product that’s getting better and better as we continue to add value and solve problems for users, artists, creators and authors.
We’ve both strengthened the core experience and added new value with a variety of first-to-market features and improvements in almost every facet of the product.
That’s the balance we’re constantly driving toward — enhancing what millions already love about Spotify, while expanding into new areas that make the platform even more attractive for users and creators alike.
And the results clearly show how this is growing both MAU and Subscribers.
We have a comprehensive list of these in our Q3 infographic that’s on our newsroom, but I wanted to share a few that really stand out as we focus on giving listeners more control, more ways to discover, and more ways to connect: First, as Alex mentioned, we rolled out big enhancements to our Free tier - the first real update to it since 2018.
With the majority of users starting their Spotify journey on Free and our bold ambitions to continue to attract new users to streaming, it was critically important to make this experience even better.
For the true audio fans, we also finally launched lossless audio for Spotify Premium users, along with mixing tools and support for 3rd party DJ decks.
Users are constantly trading content and recommendations back and forth between each other.
With our new in-app Messages feature, we’ve made it even easier to share and discuss music, podcasts and audiobooks with friends.
We’re unlocking a powerful new way for users to connect on Spotify.
Something many of you on this call have long been asking for is an Apple TV version of Spotify, which now has a dramatically improved user experience as it is built natively for the platform.
While there are lots of bold predictions out there, we think Spotify will benefit as products become even more media focused as they extend to new hardware experiences that are always in your ears and on your face.
This integration allows users to connect, stream and fully control Spotify and we were excited to be featured as an example of one of the new - and most requested - innovations in the AI space.
Then there’s our new partnership with ChatGPT, which is another example of the ways we are expanding on our ubiquity strategy, helping users discover and engage with Spotify in new ways.
The first is Jam, which lets friends listen together in real time.
We hit 100 million monthly listening hours on Jam this quarter with over 200 million users sharing content monthly.
Listening to Spotify in cars is also outperforming every expectation and it’s become a huge part of users’ daily engagement.
In fact, there are 245 million people now listening in cars, which is 34% of MAU and 15% of all consumption hours.
And zeroing in on the US, this puts us well ahead of all other subscription-based audio services.
We added 5 million net Subscribers finishing at 281 million, up 12% Y/Y and in-line with guidance.
Premium revenue rose 13% Y/Y on a constant currency basis, driven primarily by subscriber growth.
On a like-for-like basis—excluding the near-term impacts from the optimization of our licensed podcasts and the rollout of the Spotify Partner Program—we had mid-single-digit constant currency advertising growth.
We view the business as set up well for conversion and continued healthy subscriber growth in 2026.
In summary, we are very pleased with how the business is tracking into year-end.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ325.
And we have the tools we need - pricing, product innovation, operational leverage, and eventually the ads turnaround - to deliver both revenue growth and profit expansion.
That's where we are: 700 million users who keep coming back, engagement at all-time highs.