From where I sit, Spotify is faring better than most.
That fundamental demand hasn’t changed since we started Spotify — and the engagement we’re seeing now suggests we’ve become even more central to people’s lives.
The underlying data at the moment is very healthy: engagement remains high, retention is strong, and thanks to our freemium model, people have the flexibility to stay with us even when things feel more uncertain.
One great example is the Spotify Partner Program, our new monetization system for video podcasters, which launched in January and complements our growing podcast ads business.
We’re seeing strong traction, with users spending 44% more time with video content overall.
As we’ve worked to scale quickly, the program has enabled us to pay out $100 million to podcast creators in Q1 alone.
We also continued to expand Audiobooks in Premium, rolling it out to more regions and introducing innovations that are driving higher user and author engagement.
We’ve been doing a few key things to drive this Subs growth forward.
It’s industry-leading and just keeps getting better with all the new features and enhancements we’re constantly adding.
Our promotions can be highly localized and targeted, geared at converting new and long time free users that have seen the exceptional value that Spotify Premium provides.
So bottom line, we have a number of different tools available to us to continue to drive healthy subscriber growth and you saw some of those at play in Q1.
When we look at the full year 2025, we’re confident in our expectations, especially given the notable growth in engagement we continue to see across our content offerings, with listeners spending more time with Spotify than on any other audio platform.
But even in Q1, our ads business did better than expected, and we’re starting to see early benefits from the automated features we’ve been introducing.
In Q1, we had over 10,000 advertisers leveraging these new tools, representing a 21% year-over-year increase and marking the first Q1 to exceed Q4 in active advertisers.
We added 5 million net Subscribers finishing at 268 million, up 12% Y/Y.
Our Premium revenue rose 16% Y/Y on a constant currency basis, driven by continued subscriber growth and ARPU gains associated with price increases.
If we exclude the near-term impacts from strategic initiatives, like optimization of our licensed podcasts and the roll out of the Spotify Partner Program, we had low double digit advertising growth.
Favorability vs. our plan was led by stronger than expected podcast ad sales and slight variances in content costs.
Again, if you have any questions, please go to Slido.com, #SpotifyEarningsQ125.