STREAMING At our Entertainment segment, our streaming business had another quarter of profit growth, with DTC operating income up 39% in Q4 compared to the prior year.
As we continue to establish Direct-to-Consumer as a core driver of growth, we are advancing important initiatives to create a unified app experience to better serve our consumers and provide opportunities to unlock new value for the Company.
And we continue work to consolidate all of our Entertainment content domestically within a single app, which will simplify the user experience, highlight the full value of our bundles, and unlock further marketing efforts.
We continue to enhance the user experience and personalization on Disney+ and have already begun rolling out experiential and navigational improvements that highlight the full breadth of our combined content catalogues and showcase our portfolio of live content.
As Hulu replaces the Star tile on Disney+ in markets outside the U.S., we are expanding our international reach by investing strategically in our own originals and working with local studios to license content that brings more high-quality local storytelling to the platform.
Looking ahead, we are positioned to continue to grow our streaming business in fiscal 2026, driving to an operating margin of 10% for Entertainment DTC SVOD4.
3 Operating loss of $4 billion reported for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2022 for Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution Direct-to-Consumer, which included Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN+.
Page 4 SPORTS We ushered in a new era for sports fans in Q4 with the launch of ESPN’s full direct-to-consumer service and enhanced ESPN App, making ESPN’s full suite of networks and services directly available to fans for the first time and continuing ESPN’s evolution as the preeminent digital sports platform.
We’re thrilled by the response from fans so far, especially to the upgraded ESPN App, which now includes features such as Multiview, vertical short form video (“Verts”), SportsCenter For You, Catch Up to Live, and tools like live game stats, betting, fantasy sports, and commerce integration.
With the addition of ESPN DTC, we are excited for the options we are able to offer sports fans, and we believe ESPN’s success will be reflected in our financial results over time, as we reach fans across DTC and Pay TV services and drive engagement.
Direct-to-Consumer operating income increased 39% to $352 million due to higher subscription revenue driven by growth in ARPU and subscribers, partially offset by higher programming and production, marketing, and technology and distribution costs.
We ended the quarter with 195.7 million Disney+ and Hulu subscriptions, an increase of 12.4 million compared to Q3, driven by higher wholesale Hulu subscriptions.
For fiscal 2025, Direct-to-Consumer operating income was $1.3 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion compared to fiscal 2024, driven by higher results at Disney+ and Hulu.
The increase in marketing costs in the quarter was due to the launch of ESPN direct-to-consumer.