For more information on those risks, please review today's earnings release and Adobe's SEC filings.
Our performance reflects the ongoing critical role that Adobe products play in powering the global digital economy.
Next week is Adobe Summit, our flagship digital experience conference, where we will unveil the latest innovations across our portfolio.
Adobe's success over the past decade has been driven by the exponential growth of the creative economy and the customer-focused innovations we've delivered across Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience Cloud.
With creativity at the core, we have been evolving our offerings and routes to market to anticipate the distinct needs of creative professionals and next generation creators, marketing professionals, agencies and enterprises, and the broader set of consumers and business professionals.
Adobe will serve this growing community with the most comprehensive set of web, mobile and desktop applications, delivered through various subscription tiers.
In addition to Creative Cloud, we will offer new Firefly Web app subscriptions that integrate and are an onramp for our web and mobile products.
In addition to monetizing standalone subscriptions for Firefly, we will introduce multiple Creative Cloud offerings that include Firefly tiering.
Marketing professionals need to create an unprecedented volume of compelling content and optimize it to deliver personalized digital experiences across channels including mobile applications, email, social media and advertising platforms.
They're looking for agility and self-service as well as integrated workflows with their creative teams and agencies.
With Adobe GenStudio and Firefly Services, Adobe is transforming how brands and their agency partners collaborate on marketing campaigns, unlocking new levels of creativity, personalization and efficiency.
The combination of the Adobe Experience Platform and Apps and Adobe GenStudio is the most comprehensive marketing platform to deliver on this vision.
In addition to our direct sales force, we will leverage an ecosystem of partners and agencies to sell, implement, operate and deliver business outcomes to companies of all sizes.
We have accelerated One Adobe deals by increasingly integrating our creative and marketing products into a single enterprise solution.
We will continue to invest in sales capacity to deliver Adobe-wide offerings across business, education and government.
Business Professionals and Consumers want ease of use across web and mobile through a freemium model.
While the need for creative expression continues to grow exponentially, the real value is in integrating creativity and productivity in an all-in-one solution.
Revenue growth will be driven by distribution across web and mobile app stores, partnerships with major software providers and focus on SMB and enterprise sales.
This strength is also reflected in our AI-first standalone and add-on products such as Acrobat AI Assistant, Firefly App and Services, and GenStudio for Performance Marketing, which have already contributed greater than $125 million book of business exiting Q1 fiscal 2025, and we expect this AI book of business to double by the end of fiscal 2025.
In summary, by leveraging the breadth of our products and technology platforms in the era of AI and delivering new tailored offerings and solutions by customer groups, we will drive the engine of growth for the next decade.
We will win by focusing on Business Professionals and Consumers, and Creative and Marketing Professionals with a unified product strategy and go-to-market.
We exited the quarter with $17.63 billion of Digital Media ARR, growing our ending ARR book of business 12.6% year-over-year.
We continue to see healthy performance in both Creative Cloud and Document Cloud.
Creative growth was driven by broad-based adoption across our routes to market and product portfolio with particular strength in new offerings like Firefly Services an increasing number of One Adobe deals and a growing base of web and mobile users.
Document Cloud continued to see strong organic demand, continued optimizations in free-to-paid conversion journeys, and AI Assistant being released in additional languages.
We drove strong performance across Digital Media in emerging markets.
At the same time, creative professionals, creators and marketers are competing on the quality of their online presence and the personalized experiences they deliver to customers.
They turn to Document Cloud, Creative Cloud and Experience Cloud to achieve their content goals.
Going forward, as a result of AI advancements, we see incredible opportunity to serve customers with audience- specific offerings, Business Professionals and Consumers are increasingly benefiting from deep integration between Acrobat, Express and Firefly, while creative professionals, creators and marketers are investing in powerful workflows across Creative Cloud, our new web and mobile creative applications, Firefly and GenStudio.
These new capabilities and our cross-surface investments have paid off, with Acrobat and Reader monthly active usage growing 23% year-over-year.
Expanded Express integrations now include Miro, Box, Slack, Webflow and HubSpot.
Key global customer wins include AT&T, Delta Airlines, Disney, Ernst & Young, IBM, JPMorgan Chase, Microsoft, Paramount and Qatar Airlines.
We also see increasing demand from the next generation of creators, who are looking for freemium, web and mobile applications as they begin their creative journeys.
The launch garnered over 30 million social engagements in just two weeks.
We're thrilled to see creative professionals in enterprises and agencies, including dentsu, PepsiCo and Stagwell, finding success with the video model.
User engagement has been strong, with over 90% of paid users generating videos.
These apps serve as value-added capabilities to our existing paid subscribers and as a frictionless, freemium onboarding experience to attract and monetize next generation creators.
Other creative professional and creator highlights include: continued strong adoption of GenAI in our products with Photoshop GenAI monthly active users at approximately 35% and Lightroom GenAI, monthly active users at 30%.
Users have generated over 20 billion assets with Firefly.
We had another great quarter in the enterprise with more customers turning to Firefly services and custom models to scale on-brand content production for marketing use cases, including leading brands such as Deloitte Digital, IBM, IPG Health, Mattel and Tapestry.
You'll hear more on how the combination of creativity and marketing is powering personalization at scale in enterprises.
We're rapidly delivering tailored innovations to serve the full continuum of content creation for Business Professionals and Consumers, creative professionals and creators, and marketing professionals.
Our expanding breadth of offerings is reaching a broader universe of customers, and our incredible go-to-market strength and proven data-driven operating model are propelling the growth of both flagship and new offerings.
We will be unveiling more exciting product capabilities at Adobe Summit and MAX London in April.
Experience Cloud had a strong Q1, achieving revenue of $1.41 billion for the quarter.
Subscription revenue in the quarter was $1.3 billion, representing 11% year-over-year growth.
Our leading solutions spanning content, data and customer journeys enable enterprises around the world to deliver personalized experiences at scale, helping customers drive both top line growth and productivity gains.
Adobe Experience Platform and Apps play a pivotal role in enabling unified customer experiences.
Our portfolio spans the entire content supply chain from creation and production, workflow and planning, asset management, delivery and activation through to reporting and insights.
Now, we are bringing together creativity and marketing with AI to help our customers realize the full potential of personalization at scale.
Up to now, marketing professionals have been constrained by the number of content variations they can create and the number of journeys they can deploy.
With Adobe GenStudio, brands around the globe have been working with Adobe to bring creative and marketing teams closer together, simplify their creation-to-activation process, and unlock new levels of creativity, insights and efficiency in marketing campaigns.
Other highlights include: strong demand for Adobe Experience platform and native applications, with Q1 subscription revenue growing nearly 50% year-on-year; release of Real-Time CDP Collaboration, delivering a secure environment for advertisers and publishers to jointly discover, activate and measure high-value audiences for more relevant campaigns.
Alshaya, Microsoft, PNC Financial Services and Tyson Foods.
These customer wins address the ongoing evolution of the requirements of global brands for an integrated workflow spanning creativity and marketing.
This success is driven by product integration and innovation across Creative Cloud and Experience Cloud increasingly delivered through Adobe GenStudio.
The combination of our integrated enterprise solutions across creativity and marketing is a unique strength for Adobe.
Next week, we are excited to host Adobe Summit, our flagship digital experience conference in Las Vegas, where we will be joined by thousands of customers, partners, and developers from around the world.
Adobe's business has grown over the last decade by delivering world-class products grouped within three clouds: Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience Cloud.
In parallel, we have continued to expand cross-cloud offerings to better serve different customer groups.
Examples include Acrobat which is reflected in Creative Cloud and Document Cloud; GenStudio, which includes Creative Cloud, Express, Firefly Services and Experience Cloud; Enterprises who want to engage with One Adobe and combine Creative seats with marketing automation; and increasingly, Acrobat and Express.
We believe Adobe's success will be driven by innovation in service of both Business Professionals and Consumers and Creative and Marketing Professionals.
Reporting insights and the financial performance across these customer groups will provide a clear view of Adobe's execution against our strategy.
We will therefore provide overall Adobe revenue, Digital Media and Digital Experience segment revenue, Digital Experience Subscription revenue and Digital Media ending ARR in aggregate rather than by cloud, as well as subscription revenue for Business Professionals and Consumers and Creative and Marketing Professionals.
Subscription revenue provided will primarily include revenue from SaaS, managed services and term offerings.
Business Professionals and Consumers Group will consist of all subscription revenue from Document Cloud, Acrobat subscription revenue in Creative Cloud, and Adobe Express subscription revenue in Creative Cloud, all of which are part of Digital Media.
Creative and Marketing Professionals Group will consist of all subscription revenue from Digital Experience as well as all of the remaining subscription revenue from Creative Cloud in Digital Media.
In the first quarter of FY 2025, Adobe achieved revenue of $5.71 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth or 11% in constant currency.
Q1 business and financial highlights included: Digital Media revenue of $4.23 billion; Digital Media ending ARR of $17.63 billion, growing 12.6% year-over-year; Digital Experience revenue of $1.41 billion; cash flows from operations of $2.48 billion; and exiting the quarter, Remaining Performance Obligations were $19.69 billion, growing 12% year-over-year and cRPO growing 11%.
9 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2025 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q1 2025 Earnings Call 12-Mar-2025 In our Digital Media segment, we achieved Q1 revenue of $4.23 billion, which represents 11% year-over-year growth or 12% in constant currency.
We exited the quarter with $17.63 billion of Digital Media ARR, growing our ending ARR book of business 12.6% year-over-year in constant currency.
First quarter Digital Media growth drivers included: strong growth for Acrobat across all routes to market and geographies; Acrobat web and mobile growth driven by freemium funnel and app store optimizations; growth in Adobe Express, fueled by top-of-funnel improvements, PLG journeys across Acrobat and Express, and B2B customer onboarding; strength in user adoption and engagement of Acrobat AI Assistant driven by expansion of features, including support for additional languages and contract intelligence capabilities; growth of creative flagship offerings driven by All Apps, Stock, Imaging and Photography; continued momentum in Creative Web and Mobile offerings with 35% year-over-year ending paid subscription growth; and strong momentum in the enterprise, driven by Firefly Services and the continued benefit from the upsell motion of generative AI-enabled offerings.
Turning to our Digital Experience segment, in Q1, we achieved revenue of $1.41 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth as reported and in constant currency.
Digital Experience subscription revenue was $1.30 billion, growing 11% year-over-year as reported and in constant currency.
First quarter Digital Experience growth drivers included: momentum for product offerings across content, data and journeys; AEP and Apps subscription revenue growing nearly 50% year-on-year; GenStudio solution surpassing $1 billion in ending ARR book of business; early momentum in GenStudio for Performance Marketing and adoption and pipeline; and improvements in overall enterprise retention.
Creative and Marketing Professionals Group subscription revenue was $3.92 billion, which represents 10% year-over-year growth as reported.
Business Professionals and Consumers Group subscription revenue was $1.53 billion, which represents 15% year-over-year growth as reported.
In Q1, we entered into share repurchase agreements totaling $3.25 billion and we currently have $14.4 billion remaining of our $25 billion authorization granted in March 2024.
For Q2 FY 2025 we are targeting: total Adobe revenue of $5.77 billion to $5.82 billion; Digital Media segment revenue of $4.27 billion to $4.30 billion; Digital Experience segment revenue of $1.43 billion to $1.45 billion; Digital Experience subscription revenue of $1.315 billion to $1.325 billion; GAAP earnings per share of $3.80 to $3.85; and Non-GAAP earnings per share of $4.95 to $5.00.
This quarter's strong performance reflects Adobe's longstanding focus on innovation and meeting the growing needs of our broad customer base.
As businesses increasingly prioritize digital transformation, we are uniquely positioned to deliver value through our highly differentiated solutions and proven go-to-market execution to unleash the power of creativity.
Maybe just help us walk through the AI journey and how that translates to revenue.
The second is all about tracking usage and ensuring value and monetization.
A significant amount of the AI monetization is also happening in terms of attracting people to our subscription, making sure they're retained, and having them drive higher value price SKUs.
So, when somebody buys Creative Cloud or when somebody buys Document Cloud, in effect, they are actually monetizing AI.
When we talked about introducing Acrobat AI Assistant and rolling that out in different languages, Firefly, and making sure that we have a new subscription model associated with that on the web, Firefly Services for the enterprise, and GenStudio.
But if you play this out a little bit more and you talk about what investors can expect, I think with the new Firefly app that's come out, this is a web product with a new subscription, ability to have the video model, ability to have ideation as part of it, think of it as then integrating Photoshop Web, Express Web, and all of the other products, all of that is also upside.
But net-net, I would say, whether it's innovation, having our own models, integrating it across all of our products, brand-new revenue streams like GenStudio and the enterprise, and then usage and monetization, I feel really good about it.
I appreciate the commentary reaffirming 11% Digital Media ARR growth guide for the full year, but can you provide more color on trends you saw in the quarter across Creative and Document Clouds here?
So, again, just Digital Media ARR was 12.6% growth, which is in line with our expectation and also the mix was in line with our expectations.
First of all, as it comes to Business Professionals and Consumers, this is obviously a huge market with billions of users that we're going after.
From a marketing standpoint, but also from a partnership standpoint, we've doubled the partner ecosystem in the last year.
We added 6,000 new small/medium businesses to the Express product as well.
And even within Acrobat, where we've been doing more, we're seeing much more demand, we saw 10x year-over-year engagement of Express capabilities from Acrobat users.
On the creative pro and creator side, Shantanu mentioned this already, but the introduction of the Firefly Video Model being used by dentsu and PepsiCo and Stagwell, Firefly new offerings from Standard to Pro, and just yesterday, we introduced Premium, which is a much larger set of generative credits, and all of those represent new monetization models.
To just echo what you were saying, I think in the enterprise, we see a lot of demand for creativity and marketing and AI coming together.
And with the GenStudio offering, which combines the creativity and the marketing and AI, we've seen tremendous traction.
So off to a great start, I think, with innovation, new offerings.
And kind of following on that last question, correct me if I'm wrong, but it feels kind of bullish to me that the Business Professionals and Consumer Group has a stronger growth rate, Creative – at 15%, Creative and Marketing Professionals a little bit behind, because it feels like Business Professionals and Consumer Group, those products would be faster sales cycle, particularly on the consumer side of the equation, faster adoption.
The Creative and Marketing Professionals, this broader solution that you're trying to sell would have longer sales cycle.
And are you seeing any indications that that Creative and Marketing Professional Group, whether it's in your pipelines or sort of the activity you're seeing, could that catch up with what we're seeing from the Business Professionals and Consumer Group?
And the reality is that when you think about the GenStudio set of products, which we now said is $1 billion book of business, AEP and Apps is also $1 billion book of business, and the creative professional, that's actually addressing the entire content supply chain.
13 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2025 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q1 2025 Earnings Call 12-Mar-2025 And so, in terms of that growth rate, as we add new subscriptions like the Firefly app subscription, add more video, add more functionality in what we are doing with GenStudio, that growth rate as well, it's a very large, untapped opportunity.
And people have been asking us questions about the strength of the creative market as well as the strength of that market within the enterprise.
So, I think you're thinking of it right, which is to say, the $5 billion book of business that we built for digital marketing, that's really helping the content and the creative economy.
And so, that was the idea behind giving you a window into that, and the metrics associated with that are subscription and different kinds of offerings.
On the other side of the equation as well, to your point, what we wanted to do was reflect the fact that the investments that we made in both Acrobat and Express, continuing to ensure distribution when we think about the monthly average users, if you take it in aggregate, I mean Adobe has hundreds of millions of people who are using monthly – are using our products, and that will be really the early metrics and the indicators of how Express and Acrobat continue to grow.
I mean, we are not taking all of the revenue that we see in Digital Media and Digital Experience and calling that AI revenue.
Shantanu, a question for you, when you pivoted the company to a new business model through cloud, initially there was a lot of skepticism.
Then you proved to us that the TAM was actually larger in the new creative-meets- the-cloud cycle, and the company was able to accelerate through the transition and put up even better margins by expanding the TAM necessarily.
But without a doubt, as David described, the opportunity for the business professional and consumers, I think you'll start to see, and we'll share more at the FA meeting, that there are billions of people that we can bring into the fold for creativity and productivity and talk more about how we're – with the distribution that we have and with the monthly average users that we have, monetize that much like we've monetized Acrobat.
And again, I'll preview a little bit of what David will share, which is when you think about the web and mobile offerings that we're providing to attract more people to our platform as creative professionals and next generation creators, the number of people who want to enter that profession is significantly larger than it's ever been.
And so with products like Photoshop on web and mobile as well as Firefly app, that's clearly the intent, to show how that as a subscription service and attracting the next generation creators will be a tailwind.
And then when you put this together in the enterprise, I mean, hopefully what you also see as part of the additional disclosures is that the enterprises continue to be a material part of our business and material part of our growth, because they are – in order to do personalization at scale, as Anil is talking about, there's going to be 15 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2025 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q1 2025 Earnings Call 12-Mar-2025 more content that's produced, there's going to be more content that's actually inserted into ad systems and social media.
And so, again, I think setting the stage for how that's a larger opportunity, but if you look at it from not just the [ph] lens (00:50:16) of we were marketing, but look at the lens of, hey, that's a content business for us in the enterprise.
But the tariffs, et cetera, don't really impact Adobe the way they impact other businesses.
Dan, can you give us more color on why you're changing the categorization of revenue, removing the historical Document Cloud and Creative Cloud?
Is Express now sold predominantly with Document Cloud?
As we laid it out, we talked about increasingly driving cross-cloud offerings.
And as you look at individuals increasingly buying offerings, as you look at enterprises increasingly buying solutions and bringing different parts of our portfolio together to meet their highest value needs around these two groupings of the customers, it really is meant to just draw a highlight to our strategy and how we're executing against that strategy.
16 1-877-FACTSET www.callstreet.com Copyright © 2001-2025 FactSet CallStreet, LLC Adobe Inc. (ADBE) Corrected Transcript Q1 2025 Earnings Call 12-Mar-2025 On a go-forward basis, our success is going to be driven by the way we innovate into the intersection of productivity and creativity, into the intersection of creativity and marketing.
And to your question about One Adobe, yes, I mean the GenStudio solution is without a doubt taking seats of products like Photoshop or the Creative Cloud.
It's adding Express in it for every marketer in there.
And so, the more we sell that as one enterprise offering, and we want to accelerate the sale of that as a strategic partnership, that's now also all reflected in one of those revenue slices.
And then kind of similarly, if you think about if that $125 million is impacting or where the tailwinds are more towards the Creative and Marketing Professional or the Business Professionals?
The inclusion also on a roadmap, and we'll share more about this next week, of third-party models really establishes us as the one-stop shop for anything you need to do with creativity.
And then when you ladder that into a Firefly standalone offer with multiple tiers, with Pro – Standard, Premium, and Pro, when you look at that integrated into Creative Cloud, you could imagine further tiering there.
So, the majority of that revenue is actually creative, because as we can continue to put the AI Assistant as part of Acrobat SKU, we would not count that if that came as part of an Acrobat Premium SKU.
David, maybe for you, it's great to see the Firefly app here that customers can add to their existing subscriptions.
But are there any products that maybe Adobe has seen in the past, like Adobe Stock, or any others, that you look at as sort of a framework for what that adoption curve could look like?
One is exactly where you're going, Saket, and what you're asking about, which is, with every conversation we've had with creative professionals, we know that wherever they are, they're under an enormous amount of pressure to produce more.
So, what you will see is you'll start to see us integrating these new capabilities, these premium capabilities that are in the Firefly Standard, Pro and Premium plans, more deeply into the creative workflows, so more people have the opportunity to discover them.
And of course, as part of that, I think you can expect to see what we've done all along is look at where the usage is, look at where the excitement is, and make sure we get the pricing and the tiering right in a way that maximizes the opportunity for our customers and maximizes the opportunity and the value that Adobe and our shareholders get as part of that, too.
We have a high degree of conviction that it's adding value and being used by creative professionals, but it's also proving to be a good onboarding opportunity for next generation pros – sorry, next generation pros and creators in general.
So, we're excited about Firefly Services and the monetization capabilities there in both directions, new users and also value in ARPU for our existing base.
When you think about the addressable markets that we have as we think about how we serve the business professional and the consumer and the creative professional and the marketing professional, we believe that that's an immense opportunity that's only going to grow as a result of AI.
And we're starting to outline how the monetization will be different for each one of these and applicable for the customer group that we are serving.