Both were ahead of our guidance due to slightly higher subscription and ad revenue and the timing of expenses.
● We’re executing on our 2025 priorities: improving our series and film offering and growing our ads business; further developing newer initiatives like live programming and games; and sustaining healthy revenue and profit growth.
○ On April 1, we successfully launched our ad tech platform in the US and are on track to roll it out in our remaining ads countries in the coming months.
Revenue was modestly above our guidance due to slightly higher-than-forecasted subscription and ad revenue (which is still very small relative to subscription revenue).
We continue to forecast 2025 revenue of $43.5B-$44.5B, which assumes healthy member growth, higher subscription pricing and a rough doubling of our ad revenue, partially offset by F/X net of hedging.
We publish our top titles based on views each week at Netflix Top 10.
2 We believe this steady drumbeat of must-see entertainment is what allows us to capture our members’ attention and, in return, delight them every time they visit Netflix.
We do this across a variety of genres including in Q1 with action (The Night Agent S2*, 50M views), comedy (Running Point*, 36M views; Envious S2* from Argentina, 9M views) and true crime (American Murder: Gabby Petito*, 52M views); across languages including German (Cassandra*, 36M views), Portuguese (Sintonia S5*, 9M views), Korean (The Trauma Code: Heroes on Call*, 31M views; When Life Gives You Tangerines*, 23M views) and Swedish (The Åre Murders*, 29M views); and across formats such as anime (SAKAMOTO DAYS, 21M views), animated features (Plankton: The Movie*, 40M views) and documentaries (Gone Girls: The Long Island Serial Killer*, 17M views).
Per Nielsen, it’s the top unscripted streaming show of all time and top streaming original in terms of total appearances on the Nielsen Streaming Top 10.
Consumers have so many amazing entertainment choices—our business remains intensely competitive.
As a result, our improving content offering and product/market fit helped grow our share of TV time in the UK to 9.0% in Q1’25 4 (+1.0 pt versus 8.0% in Q1’24), according to data from Barb, trailing only BBC and ITV, which had ~20% and ~13% view share (this includes both their linear and streaming viewing), respectively.
Monetization As we deliver more value to members, we refine our plans and pricing to improve monetization to drive investment in future service improvements.
Our ads plan allows us to offer lower price points for consumers while creating an additional revenue and profit stream for our business.
We continue to make progress building our ads business.
We remain on track to reach sufficient scale with our member base in all ads countries in 2025, and we expect to continue to grow our ads membership from this strong base in the future.
A key focus in 2025 is enhancing our capabilities for advertisers.
We successfully rolled out the Netflix Ads Suite, our in-house first party ad tech platform, in the US on April 1st.
In the coming months we will launch the Netflix Ads Suite in our remaining ads markets.
We believe our ad tech platform is foundational to our long term ads strategy.
Over time, it will enable us to offer better measurement, 5 enhanced targeting, innovative ad formats and expanded programmatic capabilities.
Additionally, we continue to build out our infrastructure and invest in resources that will help to better serve our ads clients.
The forward-looking statements in this letter are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ, including, without limitation: our ability to attract new members and engage and retain existing members; our ability to compete effectively, including for consumer engagement with different modes of entertainment; failing to improve the variety and quality of entertainment offerings; adoption of the ads plan and paid sharing; maintenance and expansion of device platforms for streaming; fluctuations in consumer usage of our service; service disruptions; production risks; macroeconomic conditions; content slate and timing of content releases.