Looking at the rest of the calendar year, we have a lot more to come with an exciting slate of theatrical releases tied to some of our most popular IP.
On top of our studios’ outstanding performance, we saw growth in streaming profitability, historic ratings at ESPN, and the strong and enduring appeal of Disney’s Experiences business.
And if not, what else on the pricing or product side do you plan with Fubo that you couldn't accomplish with just Hulu Live?
And then if I could just take a step back, after the Fubo deal and shutting down Venu, can you discuss Disney's overall sports or broader streaming strategy with the potential for consumer confusion from all the different options, including the upcoming ESPN Flagship launch?
And so, this was a great opportunity for us to make ESPN available in multiple skinny bundles and then to actually merge the Hulu Live and the Fubo -- essentially -- channel businesses as one because frankly while we like being in that business, it wasn't a core business to Hulu.
In terms of our sports strategy, I've touched on some of it, and that is make ESPN available however the consumer wants it, wherever the consumer wants it.
Some will want to consume it as part of a linear channel, but we're obviously leaning into the development of what is now called flagship, which is essentially ESPN with multiple -- multiple elements to it, or multiple, essentially, enhancements.
And of course the inclusion ultimately of some form of betting and fantasy, and a high degree of customization and personalization, and essentially a much bigger offering in terms of product programming than the linear channels currently offer.
And if they happen to subscribe to Disney+ and Hulu, then they can experience ESPN flagship in a one app experience, which will be both convenient from a subscription perspective and also convenient from a user perspective.
And then on DTC, maybe we could drill down a little bit on how you're thinking about subscriber drivers.
In terms of subscribers, we believe that in order for us to grow subscribers it's really a combination of things.
The only way you succeed in global streaming, both from a subscription perspective and a profitability perspective, is with a great combination of high-quality product with volume and technology.
We like the opportunity to make room for our news output, both the ABC News output and the output of our local stations as part of the app experience.
With improved technology, we're now offering Streams on the Disney+ Hulu app, and news does occupy one of those streams, and it will continue to be a feature of our overall Disney+ 1 Guided in Q4 fiscal 2024 earnings press release to low single digit percentage segment operating income growth for Sports in fiscal 2026.
Could you talk a little bit about your decision to add the SportsCenter daily show to Disney+ instead of ESPN Flagship?
And with Streams and SC+, the investments in live content, what have you found to be the benefit of live as it relates to gross ads and churn and streaming?
And could you expand a little bit about the competitive advantage that Disney has in producing and distributing live relative to some other streaming services?
And so, you know, I think that as we provide our consumers with a one 2 In September, we introduced Streams on Disney+, which include Disney+ Playtime and ABC News streams available for all U.S. subscribers and four additional streams available to premium subscribers in the U.S.
That was, in part, designed to increase engagement for Disney+ Hulu subscribers.
And if they do subscribe to it, then it becomes a completely integrated app experience with Disney+ and Hulu.
So, it's there to improve, but to do two things: to benefit Disney+ and Hulu, and it's also there to ultimately benefit ESPN flagship.
And then my second question is on Direct-to-Consumer.
And then secondly, just on Disney+, if you could talk about the outlook for Disney+ subscriber growth this year.
So, given we're basically sort of slightly up in the first quarter, we'll be similar in the second quarter.3 Our expectation is, particularly as paid sharing starts to take hold and as we add more of the movie slate that we produced in the back half of 2024 into the streaming service in 2025, we think that content will drive sub growth as well.
We actually are very pleased with where we are sub wise for Disney+ and Hulu.
So the combination of Disney+ and Hulu, actually we grew subs modestly in the quarter.4 Now while we did that, we also are implementing, as we talked earlier, these technological advances or enhancements that will enable us to lower churn and continue to grow subs, and we also have a great product pipeline coming.
So, we're bullish about our ability to turn streaming not just into the profitable business that it is today, but into a growth business for the company due to the combination of all these things, and that includes the ability to successfully bundle both for the consumer and for our shareholder, Disney+, Hulu, and ultimately ESPN.
4 We ended Q1 fiscal 2025 with 178M Disney+ and Hulu subscriptions, an increase of 0.9M compared to Q4 fiscal 2024.
Maybe on ESPN flagship, Bob, just in terms of the vision that you have for the product and the objectives with that service.
If there is an effort to rollup cable networks across the industry, would there be any interest from your end, potentially, to participate in that with some of your smaller networks?
We are programming them and we are funding them at levels that actually give us the ability to enhance our overall television business that obviously includes and leans into streaming, which, let's face it, is really the future of the television business.
Page 19 Q1 FY25 Earnings Conference Call February 5, 2025 So, while I won't rule out the possibility of some of the smaller networks, in some form or another, being configured differently in terms of how we bring them to market, maybe even ownership -- but we're not right now -- we actually feel good about the hand that we have and the manner in which we're managing both the linear and the streaming businesses across the board at Disney.
Regarding flagship, it's pretty clear that young viewers, I guess you call them, or young consumers, are leaning more and more into streaming experiences, both fixed televisions on walls and mobile devices.
And the more ESPN can be present for a new generation of consumers with a product that serves them really well, the better off ESPN's business is.