Q3 2025 Update November 4th, 2025 Executive Summary p.03 Key Highlights p.04 Financial Summary p.06 Table of MAUs & Subscribers p.13 Contents Product & Platform p.16 Outlook p.20 Financial Statements p.23 2 Executive Summary Our business delivered strong results in Q3, as all KPIs met USER & FINANCIAL SUMMARY Q3 2024 Q2 2025 Q3 2025 Y/Y Q/Q or exceeded guidance to deliver strong Free Cash Flow*.
The business added 17 million MAU vs. guidance for 14 USERS (M) Total Monthly Active Users ("MAUs") 640 696 713 11% 2% million, while Subscriber net additions of 5 million were Premium Subscribers 252 276 281 12% 2% in-line.
Revenue Premium growth driven by Subscriber gains Premium Revenue grew 9% Y/Y to €3,826 million (or 13% Y/Y constant currency*), reflecting subscriber growth of 12% Y/Y and a Premium ARPU** decline of -4% Y/Y to €4.53 (or flat Y/Y constant currency).
On a constant currency basis, growth in music and podcast advertising driven by growth in impressions sold was offset by softness in pricing and optimization of our podcasting inventory in our Owned & Licensed portfolio.
Our automated sales channels remained the largest contributors to overall advertising growth.
****Auction-Based Revenue includes biddable sales within the Spotify Ad Exchange and Spotify Ads Manager.
by video podcast costs (inclusive of costs improved contribution from podcasts and previously attributable to the Ad-Supported music.
segment), partially offset by Revenue growth outpacing music costs net of marketplace programs and audiobook costs.
MAUS & SUBSCRIBERS Monthly Active Users (MAUs) Total MAUs grew 11% Y/Y to 713 million, up from 696 million last quarter and 3M above our guidance.
Quarterly performance reflected: ● Y/Y and Q/Q growth across all regions, with outperformance led by Rest of World, Europe and North America ● Global launch of mobile free tier enhancements ● Successful marketing campaigns in select developing markets Premium Subscribers Our Premium Subscribers grew 12% Y/Y to 281 million, up from 276 million last quarter and in-line with guidance.
Quarterly performance reflected: ● Y/Y and Q/Q growth across all regions, with outperformance led by Latin America and North America ● Strong global promotional campaign intake PRODUCT & PLATFORM Delivering on the Year of Accelerated Execution Launched lossless audio to Premium users Introduced Messages to Free and Premium users Leveled up playlists with mixing tools.
Premium in more than 50 markets, allowing aged 16+ in select markets on mobile, allowing fans listeners can now take their playlists further with Subscribers to enjoy higher-quality audio up to keep track of recommendations and share their the ability to add and customize transitions to 24-bit/44.1 kHz FLAC, unlocking greater favorite music, podcasts and audiobooks with friends between tracks.
Now in beta, the feature gives detail across nearly every song available on and family.
fans even more control and allows users to more Spotify.
Setting up for the next chapter of growth Rolled out updates to Spotify’s Free Announced new DSP partnerships with Amazon Introduced Spotify in ChatGPT, allowing experience globally.
These enhancements and Yahoo, granting programmatic access to users to receive personalized music and make it easier to listen, connect and share Spotify’s inventory at scale.
Listeners now have more Spotify Ad Exchange in April 2025, advertiser across more than 2,000 devices already, we’re control to search and play any track, or to participation has grown by 142%, helping brands making it even easier for listeners to discover jump right into a song shared by a friend.
Reaching new engagement milestones Celebrated two years of audiobooks in Jam hit 100 million monthly listening hours.
Spotify has introduced millions of personalized, real-time group listening experience records, becoming Spotify’s most-streamed new listeners to audiobooks in just two years lets people tune in together and build a shared album in a single day this year and the most and our English language catalog has more queue.
To celebrate, Spotify hosted a than tripled since launch, from 150K to over speakers, phones and TVs - clear proof that shared three-day fan experience in NYC with photo 500,000 titles.
Total MAUs 745 million Implies the addition of approximately 32 million net new MAUs in the quarter Total Premium Subscribers 289 million Implies the addition of approximately 8 million net new subscribers in the quarter Assumes ~620 bps headwind to growth Y/Y due to foreign exchange rate movements; based Total Revenue €4.5 billion on currency rates as of Q3 close (e.g.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: https://registrations.events/direct/Q4I57050716 We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.