And we continue work to consolidate all of our entertainment content domestically within a single app, which will simplify the user experience, highlight the full value of our bundles, and unlock global marketing efforts.
We’re also expanding our international reach by investing strategically in our own originals and working with local studios to license content that brings more high-quality local storytelling to the platform.
Turning to sports, we ushered in a new era with the launch of ESPN’s full direct-to-consumer service and enhanced ESPN App, making ESPN’s full suite of networks and services available directly for the first time.
We’re thrilled by the response from fans so far, especially to the upgraded ESPN App, which now includes features such as Multiview, SportsCenter For You, Catch Up to Live, and tools like live game stats, betting, fantasy sports, and commerce integration.
At our Experiences segment, we delivered record operating income for both Q4 and the full year, with operating income up 13% for the fourth quarter compared to the prior year and up 1 Operating loss of $4 billion reported for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2022 for Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution Direct-to-Consumer, which included Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN+.
Bob, I think we've been talking about ESPN going direct-to-consumer for, I don't know, it feels like a decade or so now, and you've got the product in the market.
First of all, what we set about to do was to attract basically new users, people who had either been subscribers to the multi-channel linear bundle or people who had not, but wanted to Page 7 Q4 FY25 Earnings Conference Call November 13, 2025 engage more with the ESPN, and we've done extremely well in that regard, signing up essentially new users.
The other thing we wanted to do was we wanted to give people who wanted to stay in the multi-channel linear bundle a chance to use the app and to engage with us more deeply because the app has so many more features than the linear channels do.
And the authentication rate of people who are already subscribers has been very, very encouraging.
Third, we ended up signing up a substantial number of subscribers to what we call the ultra product or the ultimate ESPN product, which is essentially mostly attracting cord-nevers, people who want to engage with sports, but maybe they don't want to engage as deeply as those that get linear channels or those that have subscribed to the main app.
And the algorithm seems to be working as well; I know it's working for me, where if you watch certain videos on ESPN, and particularly if you click like, then your feed is populated by sports news and sports highlights that you are more interested in.
So, I guess in almost every way you look at it, it has worked; it's also working for advertisers because obviously there's real value in the data that we provide advertisers on the direct-to-consumer platform.
And so we're attracting both more advertising and new advertisers to the service.
And as we look ahead, we believe that we've created a product that is very, very consumer friendly, very advertiser friendly, and actually works both for the traditional distribution ecosystem and for what I'll call the DTC ecosystem, if there is such a thing.
So where the linear channels provide, obviously live sports and studio programming, more of what I'll call along the lines of the traditional sports television, the new app gives users a chance to engage with thousands and thousands more sports events over the year, and I think that's not only a sports fan's delight, but I think overall it's about as consumer friendly as it gets.
One of the things that we're also very encouraged by is the fact that of the subscribers that have signed up to the new app, a substantial number of them, about 80%, have signed up to what we call the Trio Bundle, which includes Disney+ and Hulu.
Given the ongoing carriage dispute with YouTube TV, have you provisioned anything in the EPS guidance for a sustained blackout, or is the economic impact actually more minimal because you think those folks would resubscribe elsewhere, including maybe the ESPN app?
There's the piece that we're not getting paid for, and then the piece that we're picking up by virtue of subscribers moving elsewhere.
Bob, as we think about Disney+ as a portal to all things Disney, can you talk about the future roadmap and how subscribers will be able to use Disney+ as a super app, for not only Hulu and ESPN that you started to talk about, but also engage with your parks and other assets?
And then, Hugh, do you see a path ahead for sustained double-digit DTC revenue growth through a combination of subscriber engagement and advertising increases?
And as I mentioned in my remarks, we've turned Hulu into a global general entertainment brand, which we think is going to create more awareness and basically create closer alignment with our US product.
One, you've grown content via both building and buying, and clearly we're going to see M&A in media in the coming year with a lot of moving pieces across the industry, some companies being broken up.
And then from a linear perspective, obviously, that's driven by what happens with subscribers.
Bob, any interest from you on becoming a broader bundler of streaming?
You already have ESPN and Disney+ and Hulu bundled.
And then just to understand the impact of ESPN bundling on Disney+ and Hulu a little bit better, anything you can share with respect to maybe the churn benefits or any kind of subscriber acquisition cost tailwinds that you saw in the quarter, what you expect going forward potentially from that?
First of all, as it relates specifically to ESPN bundling, what we've found is that subscribers that bundle, either that bundle Disney+ and Hulu or subscribers that bundle Disney+, Hulu and ESPN are healthier subscribers, in the sense that the churn rates are lower than the subscriber that only subscribes to one app.
We've also found that bundling with others, for instance, we've been bundling with [HBO] Max in the United States, also has a lower – an effect of lowering churn.
And we also have proven that it works both for us in terms of our subscribers and also for the subscribers that we attract for the bundling entity.
If you were to ask the folks at Warner Brothers Discovery about the impact of the [HBO] Max bundle on them, they would tell you that they've signed up a substantial number of subscribers thanks to the bundle with us.
Two, if I could, first on direct-to-consumer, I was hoping you could share some of the puts and takes on the cost side in 2026, especially as you continue to invest in technology and programming, but I didn't know if there was some maybe cost savings associated with integrating the tech stacks, for example, that we should be mindful of.
Bob, you noted generative AI earlier, but it sounded primarily as a use case within your apps, and I'm wondering how you view the opportunity or risk to license out content or IP to some of the emerging video creation platforms?
Seeking to not only protect the value of our IP and of our creative engines, but also to seek opportunities for us to use their technology to create more engagement with consumers.
Both to provide tools that make the platforms more dynamic and more sticky with consumers, but also to give consumers the opportunity to create on our platforms.
The deal that we have proposed is equal to or better than what other large distributors have already agreed to, so we're not trying to really break any new ground, and while we've been working tirelessly to close this deal and restore our channels to the platform, it's also imperative that we make sure that we agree to a deal that reflects the value that we deliver, which both YouTube, by the way, and Alphabet have told us is greater than the value of any other provider.