We are also quite pleased with the performance of our general entertainment and news programming.
Meanwhile, we are only a few months away from the launch of ESPN’s exciting new direct-to- consumer product offering, and we look forward to sharing pricing and timing details very soon.
Overall, our expansive portfolio of high-quality content and programming is enabling us to continue to grow revenue and profitability in our streaming business.
Streaming remains a key priority and a core growth platform for Disney.
Over the last year-plus, you guys have been bringing more Hulu content and sports content into Disney+.
I'm just wondering if you're seeing benefits to this broader content strategy within the Disney+ app, whether you look – this is obviously a domestic comment – but when you look at engagement, sign-ups, etcetera, is the broadening out of Disney+ into other areas of content helping the business from a sign-ups, churn engagement point-of-view?
And as we look ahead, it's obviously our desire and in fact, we're optimistic about being able to execute against it to turn the streaming business into a true growth business.
One is what we've just talked about, which is to continue to put Disney+ and Hulu together as a user experience.
In addition, we plan when we launch ESPN direct-to-consumer to be really smart about bundling that.
So, when you consider the Disney brands that are part of Disney+, the general entertainment that's part of Hulu and the volume, and then the live sports that will be part of the experience, in a way, there's nothing like it in the streaming world.
We all know that in our zeal to flood our streaming platform with more content that we turned to all of our creative engines, including Marvel and had them produce a lot more.
And then just given the importance of some of the features you'll rollout like betting and fantasy, how do you think about wanting to keep subscribers in that ecosystem versus giving them the option of consuming their flagship subscription through Disney+?
But the plan would be to basically be somewhat agnostic from a subscriber perspective, so that we can still do our best to preserve the multichannel ecosystem, but at the same time, obviously want to grow our DTC business.
The difference is that the ESPN linear service will, if that's all this consumer chooses to watch, will not have the bells and whistles and those additional features that the DTC service will have.
Page 15 Q2 FY25 Earnings Conference Call May 7, 2025 That said, what we've already been doing and what we'll continue to do is give consumers of Disney+ and Hulu a taste of live sports on that service so that we have an opportunity to upsell them on the Disney DTC service, which obviously is a priority of ours.
We're going to make it very, very clear what is what, meaning what you get when you just watch linear, what you get when you sign up to [ESPN] DTC.
And I think the most important thing is that if you are a subscriber of Disney+ and Hulu and ESPN DTC – I should have said ESPN, not Disney – if you're a subscriber of all three, you'll have a seamless experience there.
Hugh Johnston – Chief Financial Officer, The Walt Disney Company And hey, Kannan, I'll handle the streaming question.
While your point is exactly right, with a business that is going to have the growth that we have expectations for in the streaming business, there will clearly be leverage that just comes out of the revenue growth itself.
And especially as we start to add more to the product, both in terms of the technology side of the product where we will be investing and in terms of the content that's delivered, whether it's bringing ESPN on and the additional content that we've been bringing in through bundling, we certainly expect to get operating leverage out of marketing over time.