The USERS (M) Total Monthly Active Users ("MAUs") 626 678 696 11% 3% business added 18 million MAU in Q2 vs. guidance for 11 Premium Subscribers 246 268 276 12% 3% million, while Subscriber net additions of 8 million exceeded Ad-Supported MAUs 393 423 433 10% 2% guidance by 3 million.
Revenue Premium growth driven by Subscriber gains Premium Revenue grew 12% Y/Y to €3,740 million (or 16% Y/Y constant currency*), reflecting subscriber growth of 12% Y/Y and a Premium ARPU** decline of -1% Y/Y to €4.57 (or up 3% Y/Y constant currency).
On a constant currency basis, music and podcast advertising was driven by growth in impressions sold, partially offset by softness in pricing and optimization of our podcasting inventory in our Owned & Licensed portfolio.
Our automated sales channels were the largest contributors to overall advertising growth.
The Y/Y trend was improvements in our Premium and Revenue growth outpacing music costs net driven by improved contribution from podcasts Ad-Supported segments.
costs, partially offset by Spotify Partner Program costs.
MAUS & SUBSCRIBERS Monthly Active Users (MAUs) Total MAUs grew 11% Y/Y to 696 million, up from 678 million last quarter and 7M above our guidance.
Quarterly performance reflected: ● Y/Y growth across all regions, with outperformance led by Rest of World, Latin America and Europe ● Successful marketing campaigns in select developing markets ● Favorable shifts in competitor dynamics Premium Subscribers Our Premium Subscribers grew 12% Y/Y to 276 million, up from 268 million last quarter and 3 million above guidance.
Quarterly performance reflected: ● Y/Y and Q/Q growth across all regions, with outperformance led by Latin America, Europe, North America and Rest of World ● Strong global promotional campaign intake PRODUCT & PLATFORM Music innovation continues to strengthen our ecosystem for creators and listeners Launched voice requests for DJ for Expanded AI Playlist to more than 40 new Upcoming Releases hub puts fans first, Premium listeners across 60+ markets where markets including countries in Africa, Asia, Europe helping users pre-save music, explore clips and DJ is available, making it even easier to set and the Caribbean, making it easier than ever to turn merch and get alerts on release day.
Scaling audiobooks through market expansion and add-on subscriptions Rolled out Audiobooks in Premium to 4 Launched two new add-on Audiobooks Audiobooks in Premium have grown rapidly new markets (Germany, Austria, Switzerland subscriptions: Audiobooks+ unlocks 15 extra since launching in 2023, with listening hours and Liechtenstein), giving users flexible ways hours of listening per month for individual up more than 35% Y/Y in the U.S., U.K. and to pay for access to over 350,000 titles subscribers and plan managers, while Audiobooks+ Australia.
Supporting creators, connecting fans and delivering culture-moving moments Celebrated Travis Scott and Miley Cyrus Discover Weekly Turns 10, having spent a decade Launched a limited-edition set of digital with Billions Club Live, featuring Travis helping listeners find their next favorite artist or song.
CARTER-related playlists across the U.S. OUTLOOK Outlook for Q3’25 The following forward-looking statements reflect Spotify’s expectations for Q3 2025 as of July 29, 2025 and are subject to substantial uncertainty.
Total MAUs 710 million Implies the addition of approximately 14 million net new MAUs in the quarter Total Premium Subscribers 281 million Implies the addition of approximately 5 million net new subscribers in the quarter Assumes ~490 bps headwind to growth Y/Y due to foreign exchange rate movements; Total Revenue €4.2 billion based on currency rates as of Q2 close (e.g.
Participants also may join using the listen-only conference line by registering through the following site: https://registrations.events/direct/Q4I570506211 We use investors.spotify.com and newsroom.spotify.com websites as well as other social media listed in the “Resources – Social Media” tab of our Investors website to disclose material company information.