As For over four decades, Adobe’s innovations have transformed customer needs have evolved amidst the proliferation of how individuals, teams, businesses, enterprises, institutions, digital surfaces, media types and channels, we are continuing and governments engage and interact across all types of to focus on supporting creative professionals across core media.
Our products, services and solutions are used around creative categories like imaging, design, illustration and the world to imagine, create, manage, deliver, measure, video with superior power and precision.
We are enabling optimize and engage with content across surfaces and marketers to streamline creativity and marketing for fuel digital experiences.
We have a diverse user base that greater impact, by bringing content and performance data includes consumers, communicators, creative professionals, together and enabling personalization to the individual developers, students, small and medium businesses and customer, in real time at unprecedented scale.
We are also empowering our customers by professionals and consumers, we are amplifying creativity putting the power of AI in their hands, and doing so in ways and productivity by enabling anyone regardless of age or we believe are responsible.
Our products and services help experience level to express themselves in quick, easy and unleash creativity, accelerate document productivity and compelling ways.
Our highly differentiated approach to generative AI A MOMENTOUS 2024 innovations puts ethics, responsibility and provenance at the In fiscal year 2024, we delivered record revenue of $21.51 forefront and always with customer trust in mind.
We are billion across our two businesses, Digital Media and Digital innovating across the full AI technology stack: data, models Experience, representing 11% year-over-year growth.
GAAP and interfaces, natively integrating AI across all our existing diluted earnings per share was $12.36, representing 5% year- and new offerings, because that is the only way to deliver AI over-year growth.
In our Digital Media business, comprised in a way that enhances customers’ work.
This approach is of our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud applications, we rooted in Adobe’s belief that creativity is a uniquely human delivered revenue of $15.86 billion, which grew 12% year- trait and that AI has the power to assist and amplify human over-year.
Our Digital Experience business, with solutions ingenuity and enhance creativity, not replace it.
spanning the entire customer funnel from acquisition to monetization to retention, delivered revenue of $5.37 billion, The tremendous staying power and impact that technologies making us one of the mission-critical providers of marketing like PostScript, Photoshop and PDF have had in the market is technology in the world.
our aggressive product roadmap, delivering foundational technology platforms that set us up for continued growth Our strategy with Adobe Document Cloud is to in fiscal year 2025 and beyond.
We reimagined Our strategy with Adobe Experience Cloud is to help pro video workflows end to end across editing, audio, color enterprises deliver personalized digital experiences at and effects in Premiere Pro enabling faster video editing scale to their customers by combining the right content, and released a major update of Frame.io, offering seamless customer data and journeys in real time.
We are enabling creative management for video projects and seamless them to supercharge their marketing agility and customer collaboration between editors and their stakeholders.
We are to enhance the productivity of marketing practitioners exposing the power of our creative tools and the magic of through generative AI, while expanding access to native generative AI through Firefly Services APIs so organizations AEP applications.
revolution by bringing content and data together in Adobe GenStudio, integrating high-velocity creative expression with We continue to reimagine creativity and productivity for a enterprise activation.
With Adobe GenStudio, we are bringing broader set of customers with Adobe Express, the quick and together products across our clouds including Creative Cloud, easy create-anything app.
We released Express for Business, Adobe Experience Manager, Workfront, Adobe Journey including support for brand controls and template locking, Optimizer and Customer Journey Analytics as well as Adobe Firefly custom models, bulk creation and generation of Express for Business to address the massive content supply variations, presentation and print capabilities, and workflows chain opportunity.
Our approach to empower marketers with Photoshop, Illustrator and Experience Cloud.
We are to quickly plan, create, manage, activate and measure on- working to create more streamlined and precise workflows brand content is resonating with customers and validating within our tools, through features like Text-to-Template in our leadership across data, content and journeys to deliver Express and increasingly Acrobat.
We also released Adobe GenStudio for Performance Marketing, extending with the Adobe Foundation to accelerate investment in our end-to-end content supply chain solution and empower filmmaking and advance the careers of emerging creators in marketing teams to create their own ads and emails, driving the film and television industries.
Adobe for All is our commitment to creating a company With Firefly, we are ushering in a new era for our flagship where all employees are empowered to make an impact.
products by natively integrating more AI-powered features We were founded on the principle that great ideas come across our portfolio and using AI to bring our clouds closer from anywhere and we believe that when people feel together.
We are also extending our applications to integrate respected and included, they are more creative, innovative third-party text and media generation models and partnering and successful.
Strong customer usage, value and demand offer leadership development and internal networking and for our AI solutions across all segments are driving early learning opportunities.
Through Adobe’s Learning Fund, we monetization success of new AI technologies across our provide funding for education and professional development Digital Media and Digital Experience businesses.
We are programs to give all employees the opportunity to invest delighted to see customer excitement and adoption for our in their career at Adobe.
As one of the world’s most innovative software companies whose products touch billions of people around the world, Technology to Transform is our commitment to advancing we are committed to serving the diverse needs of our the responsible use of technology for the good of our customers and making a positive impact in their lives.
We are There are three key areas where we are uniquely positioned leading the development of industry standards for content to make an impact: Creativity for All, Adobe for All and authenticity and creator attribution.
on licensed and public domain content to offer customers a commercially safe solution that respects creator rights and Through Creativity for All, we are empowering millions of doesn’t infringe on third-party intellectual property rights.
We have ethically, considering potential risks and impacts on users over 100 higher education institutions in the Adobe Creative and society.
Since 2019, the Adobe-led Content Authenticity Campus program globally and support K-12 student success Initiative has been focused on promoting the widespread across digital literacy and creativity by offering free access to adoption of provenance tools like Content Credentials and Adobe Express for Education.
We expanded Adobe Digital now has over 4,000 members.
LOOKING AHEAD As customer needs continue to evolve, we are focused on delivering the offerings that advance their creativity, marketing and productivity in the age of AI.
Coupled with the massive market opportunity, Adobe’s best years are ahead of us.